Although Apple enthusiasts around the world have had the pleasure of enjoying the latest iPhone 11, iPhone 11 pro and iPhone 11 pro max, since the launch of these devices on September 20, 2019, there is an added advantage for Apple users in Nigeria who don’t have bother about the authenticity of the phones they’re getting through unauthorised retailers anymore, as Redington, the official Apple representative and value added distributor in Nigeria has officially launched these new model devices into the Nigerian market. Speaking at the launch event in Lagos on November 1, 2019, Vickram Gopaal, category head, Apple Africa for Redington explained that the new devices offer upgrades to essential features and are more powerful with more value for the new smartphone generation. “As a global technology leader, we are committed to providing meaningful innovations to our consumers. Apple’s iPhone 11, iPhone 11 pro and iPhone 11 pro max have been developed for individuals who are looking for the very best in user experience from amazing display, superior camera technology and long-lasting battery life. The devices come with amazing new features such as the Dual-Camera system in the iPhone 11, triple-lens camera system in the iPhone 11 pro and iPhone 11 pro max, super retina XDR displays, 4DX spatial audio, slo-mo selfies and A13 bionic chip technology. It’s a complete package of great looks, value and top performance,” Vickram said. By getting the phones through the authorized retailers, Nigerian customers will have the benefit of one year extended warranty, cover against liquid damage, free service by Apple certified engineers in 41 collecting points across Nigeria and many more. The transformative Triple-Lens Camera system; Ultra Wide, Wide, and Telephoto, add tons of capability without complexity. The new iPhones; iPhone 11 Pro lasts up to 4 hours longer than iPhone XS while iPhone 11 Pro Max lasts up to 5 hours longer than iPhone XS Max, this allows uninterrupted streaming, gaming and improved user experience. The improved battery life offers users more screen time for things like navigation and video playback. “You can read emails, surf the web, and open documents on a stunning super retina XDR display with the unprecedented leap in battery life. You can be sure of your productivity, anytime, any day, anywhere. To all lovers of selfies, these devices are for them because the devices are perfect for photos, videos, and video conferences. Ultimately, the new iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max models are designed for the way that people are connecting today – sharing, capturing and consuming live content on-the-go”, Sujeendra Prasad, sales head – Apple Nigeria for Redington said. The iPhone 11 comes in six stunning finishes; purple, green, yellow, white, black and (product) red while the iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max are available in four stunning finishes; midnight green, space gray, gold and silver. “You can get up to N 80,000 worth of value added benefits just by getting your iPhone 11 from Apple authorised resellers in Nigeria,” the company said.