The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has begun the distribution of sensitive materials to the various Registration Area Centres (RACs) in all the eight local government areas of the state ahead of tomorrow’s governorship election. Movement of the sensitive materials from the Yenagoa Branch of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) was supervised by INEC officials and monitored by party agents, local and international observers as well as security operatives. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state, Monday Tom Udoh assured that INEC is ready to conduct a credible, free and fair election for the people of the state. Udoh stated: “We are here to observe and monitor the movement of the materials. The sensitive materials conveyed were ballot papers and result sheets, card reader machines amongst others. “The distribution is moving smoothly, the security agents are here and the National Union of Road Transporter Workers (NURTW) are also with us. The police has deployed many of their men for this distraction and the election proper. “The electorate should be civil, peaceful, conduct themselves well and listen to instructions, especially from the security personnel. “For now, all the political parties are participating unless there is any court order; that is only when we can disqualify the affected party.” All Progressives Congress (APC) agent for Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, Tari Ere, expressed worry over some materials which were unavailable, such as result sheets in some of the wards in the area, though saying INEC has made palliatives. Ere said: “What is keeping us here are Wards 9, 10 and 11 voters registers, else, we are good to go. “Though, we are having some issues in Ward 15 Southern Ijaw, result sheets were not available, but they brought replacement sheets, which have been certified, so we are good to go and we are very comfortable with the distribution processes.” However, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) agent for Brass Local Government Area, Victor Ateki expressed concerns over movement of materials through Nembe Local Government Area where the PDP and APC supporters clashed last Wednesday.