 The Ben Enwonwu Foundation in collaboration with the Society of Nigerian Artists and supported by Alliance Française /Mike Adenuga Centre Lagos, will on November 22, 2019 present the second edition of its monthly series talks Point of View. It will hold at Alliance Française/Mike Adenuga Centre, Ikoyi, Lagos. Drawing from other creative disciplines and experiences to take a broad helicopter view of the art scene in Nigeria and Africa, Point of View aims to encourage support and funding for the visual arts through public and private sector partnership while ensuring continuing artist’s professional development and empowerment. Conceived as a collaborative platform, the third edition of Point of View titled Museums, Tourism and Urban Development will address key issues, trends and challenges in Nigeria’s cultural tourism sector. Leading architects will share their insights on the most innovative construction and design trends, using completed, on-going and upcoming projects as examples. In addition, museum specialists will shed light on improving museum experiences, preservation and conservation activities, as well as the challenges they face while government authorities will highlight investment opportunities and speak on museum development and destination marketing. Speakers are; Jumoke Adenowo, Principal, A.D. Consulting will present on Elements of an African Museum; Seun Oduwole, Principal Architect SI.SA, who will talk about the J.K. Randle Centre for Yoruba History & Culture, Pool & Arcade: A Case for Tourism and Destination Marketing; and Jess Castellote, Director, Yemisi Shyllon Museum at the Pan Atlantic University, who will speak on Yemisi Shyllon Museum: A Study in Innovation, Latest Construction and Design Trends.  The theme of the panel session is The Cultural Tourism Sector: Funding, Visitor Experiences & Technology. Panellists for the evening are; Aderenle Sonariwo, Consultant to the Ogun State Government on Arts, Culture and Tourism, and founder, Rele Gallery, Lagos; Tosin Oshinowo, Director, cmDesign Atelier (cmD+A) and Omotayo Adeboye, Curator, National Museum, Lagos. Jumoke Adenowo will moderate the session. This event is supported by BusinessDay, Hundids Magazine, Connect Nigeria, Wild Flower PR, Society of Nigerian Artists, The Sole Adventurer, Onobello and Omenka. About the Foundation The Ben Enwonwu Foundation (BEF) was established in 2003 in honour of celebrated Nigerian artist, Professor Benedict Chukwukadibia Enwonwu MBE, NNOM (1917-94). Enwonwu was the first Nigerian artist to gain international acclaim and first professor of art in Nigeria. He was the first Nigerian artist to be conferred Member of the distinguished order of the British Empire and first African artist to be commissioned to sculpt Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II. The first federal art adviser, Ben Enwonwu ranks among the greatest artists in the world. The Foundation aims to sustain and build on his life and works through which he forged a philosophical basis for contemporary Nigerian art by fusing Western techniques and indigenous traditions. Enwonwu is widely acclaimed as Africa’s pioneer modernist artist, his success increasing the visibility and appreciation of modern art in Africa. In 2004, the Foundation started its distinguished lecture series, which has become a major gathering for the rich diversity of contemporary Nigerian society. It offers an opportunity for national and international leaders, renowned academics and policymakers to share their understanding and perspectives on the role of art in
causing desirable societal changes while contributing to nation-building and economic empowerment. Through scholarships and grants, The Ben Enwonwu Foundation supports research, exhibitions and publications that foster innovative and scholarly artistic expression. Previous beneficiaries of the scheme include students of Yaba College of Technology, Ahmadu Bello University, Obafemi Awolowo University and the University of Lagos. In furtherance of its objectives, the Foundation opened an art centre in the artist’s home to promote research into his practice. The centre’s year-round educational programme explores Enwonwu’s art practice, the cultural and social context of his work and links to contemporary themes. The centre also houses leading gallery, Omenka, which represents a select number of African and international artists while examining in an experimental and research-minded way, contemporary art developments and discourses in Nigeria. Currently, the Foundation is embarking on several projects, which include publishing a catalogue raisonne of Enwonwu’s works, as well as autobiography, lectures and writings on contemporary African art