Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki on Thursday swore in 247 new aides with a charge to be his eyes, ears and fight against oppressors. The new aides were sworn in more than one month after the sacking of the former appointees. The state government had on October 2, 2019 in a statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government,  Osarodion Ogie announced the sacking of all the 192 wards special assistants and local government senior special assistants to the governor. Ogie, however, announced that fresh appointments would be announced within the next 30 days. The breakdown of the aides sworn in by the governor yesterday shows 192 wards special assistants and 55 local government senior special assistants. However, two persons were appointed as special assistants out of the 10 wards in Ikpoba Okha while there were no appointees out of the 10 wards in Ovia South-West Local Government Areas. Read also: Edo proposes amendment to Violence Against Persons law While for the position of Senior Special Assistants there were also no representatives in Ovia South-West and Uhunmwode Local Government Areas respectively. Speaking at the swearing ceremony in Benin City, the state governor who urged the appointees to be his eyes and ears in their various wards and local governments, however admonished them not to take side with oppressors and do justice to all manner of people. Obaseki, who noted that Edo State does not belong to few individuals, also urged them not to sabotage the effort of his government. According to him, “Edo State cannot be restricted to just a few people. So, our appeal to you is to represent us well. Please, I am begging you, serve your people. Uphold justice and never take side with the oppressors. “Once again, I charge you to uphold the ethical standard which this government, administration is proud of. “So, I encourage all of you that after today go back to your various wards and Local Government Areas of Edo State. You must feel the purse of the people. Our aim is to penetrate into the grassroots and deliver the dividend of good governance to our people. “I want you be our eyes and ears in your various domains. I want to know the area of opportunities in the area of employment, security and agriculture. “I want you to go to your various communities and liaise with your leaders and define the programmes and governance in this State.  “Today, we are looking for land in Edo State to cultivate thousands of hectares, that is part of your responsibility to help the government to achieve”, he said. While enjoining the appointees to emulate the legacies of the late Samuel Osaigbovo Ogbemudia, he opined that the late former two-time governor of the defunct Midwest and Bendel states did not die a multi-millionaire. “He is being remembered today not because of his riches, but because of his service to our people in the defunct Bendel State, now Edo and Delta States. This is the kind of culture that we are trying to introduce to the people of Edo State”, he added. Responding on behalf of the Special Assistant and the Senior Special Assistants, respectively Ogie Ogedengbe and Lucky Aigbe expressed willingness to key into the giant strides of the governor’s administration, describing the 2020 governorship election in the state as a done deal. 