R.S.V.P Lagos is a modern upscale restaurant and bar serving new American cuisine since 2014. From its industrial luxury design elements to its hidden bar and lounge behind the restaurant, R.S.V.P. is inspired by the prohibition era restaurants and bars in Manhattan NYC.  The freshly made food, excellent bar program and exceptional service, along with carefully curated music and world-class design are elements that make RSVP stand out in the Lagos culinary scene.  Located on 9 Eletu Ogabi St, Victoria Island, R.S.V.P is a restaurant that takes me down memory lane. It was the first restaurant that I visited when I first moved to Lagos. Comparing the first time I went there to the present day, gives me an appreciation for the two and a half years I have spent in this wonderful city.  R.S.V.P has become a staple in the Lagos culinary scene and it’s definitely one of the top 6 restaurants in my opinion. On this occasion, I went with my friend Vivian Ojo who I went to high school with, in Swaziland. We both have found ourselves in Lagos and it’s been great to have a familiar face around town.  It was a Friday night and we wanted to have some delicious food with good vibes and R.S.V.P on a Friday is definitely a fun place to go. The food is to die for, each meal I have ever had at R.S.V.P has been absolutely delicious, fresh and out of the box. This evening I decided to go with the duck rolls, and honey glazed chicken wings.  The chicken wings were delicious. I asked for sour cream to go with it and the chef came out to ask for clarification and provided me the perfect sour dip to go with the honey glazed chicken wings. The duck rolls were equally as delicious.  I’m always careful about not eating exotic meat but I think duck is acceptable right?  I absolutely recommend this as a starter because it is super filling and different from the average starter. For my main meal, l I had the roasted salmon fillet.  Both meals were scrumptious, well prepared, well-plated and the food came out in a timely manner.  One thing I love about R.S.V.P the restaurant is that the service is stellar. Each and every member of staff understands the value of hospitality and good service and I feel it every time I go. The welcome is always warm and the staff is very attentive to detail and knowledgeable on the menu options. The owner and chef are also very on hand and can often be seen talking to customers and ensuring that all customers are enjoying their food and having a good time. They also have a great drinks menu that includes cocktails, mocktails, and wine options. R.S.V.P is also known for its poolside bar which is a great and fun Friday nightspot. I would recommend you go around 10 or 11.pm  if you are only interested in the poolside experience. That being said I would recommend that if you don’t enjoy standing all night you should book a table in advance as it fills up quite quickly and gets packed.  The service indoors is slightly better than the outside pool but that is to be expected I guess. R.S.V.P is definitely a vibe and I recommend this place for people that enjoy fine dining, a good time and a fun yet sophisticated ambience. Total  for 1  N25 300 Duck rolls- N4500 Chicken wings N4500 Roasted Salmon Fillet – N12500 Creme brulet- N3800 Rating 5 stars