Entrepreneurship and creativity are two of the redeeming features of Nigeria’s young people which accounts for about 70 percent of the population, The features on the latest OPPO Reno Series appears tailored specifically for this demography.  The series comes in two models, the Reno2 and Reno2 F. One of the things both models have in common is their enhanced photography and video features. For Nigerian creatives and potential entrepreneurs starting a career in photography, this could be the most affordable phone to go for.  The quad-camera setup includes 5x Hybrid Zoom allowing users to get far closer to a subject, ultra-clear night shots even under near darkness condition on Ultra Dark Mode and super-stable video shooting on the go thanks to Ultra Steady Video. The zoom option performs best in the most necessary conditions ranging from busy cities to natural landscapes to broad daylight to dark nightlife, otherwise, you may need telephoto and digital cropping.  Joseph Adeola, public relations manager of OPPO Nigeria said the models inherited the creative spirit of the Reno Series.  “This latest iteration presents our users with even more creative possibilities, empowering them to discover new perspectives,” he said.  The Reno2 also comes with a 48MP primary equipped with Optical Image Stabilization, F 17 aperture and a half-inch sensor along with Quad Bayer technology which helps the phone achieve better performance in low light.  The Oppo Reno 2 ships with a very comprehensive package that includes a high-quality case, a pre-applied screen protector, as well as a headset in the box. Additionally, the phone ships with a VOOC 3.0 charger and accompanying USB-C cable, as well as the usual quick-start guides. Read also: Three reasons why African mobile connectivity is misleading With a 48MP primary lens equipped with Optical Image Stabilization, F1.7 aperture, and a 1/2-inch sensor along with Quad Bayer technology, Reno2 can achieve better performance in low light. The Reno2 Series’ Ultra Dark Mode covers an entire range of different night scenes via a powerful NPU, and OPPO fine-tuned algorithms. Even if light levels measure below 1 lux, it elevates your photos beyond the naked eye through hardware network-optimized AI noise reduction. But a single photo can’t tell a whole story, and with social media users increasingly shooting video, OPPO is paying more attention to Videography than before. OPPO’s industry-leading Ultra Steady Video Mode technology ups the stability of videos, enabling users to capture steady videos while running, skiing, skateboarding, cycling, and more. It’s achieved through an IMU measuring device with a high sampling rate and a hull sensor, equipped with Electronic Image Stabilization and Optical Image Stabilization. These compensate for users’ shaky shots more accurately, and together with a 60fps frame rate, enhance image stabilization, fluency, and overall image quality. The OPPO Reno2 in Ocean Blue with 8GB RAM and 256GB ROM will be available for sale on the 18th of November 2019 N179,000 only. The OPPO Reno2 F in Lake Green and Sky White with 8GB RAM and 128GB ROM will be available for sale on the 18th of November 2019 at N129,000 only. Both devices come with the standard 2-year warranty policy.  You can think of the Oppo Reno 2 as a less powerful, more affordable variation on the Oppo Reno 10x Zoom – that’s the phone to get if you want the best that Oppo can offer right now, but if you want to save yourself some money, then this might suit you better.