When The Wheatbaker opened its doors to the discerning public in the last quarter of 2011, it promised to offer luxurious boutique experience amid world-class facilities. Going by the poor maintenance culture in the country then, some hospitality industry observers thought the hotel would go the way of others when wear and tear set in. Almost a decade down the line, the Ikoyi-based boutique hotel is waxing stronger on its offerings, especially personalised services, facility maintenance and innovations. Since then the hotels has made each year’s anniversary unique. When it turned 5 years in October 2016, it kicked off the celebration with the opening of ‘Freedom’, an art exhibition by Gbenga Off, a leading Nigerian contemporary artist. Few weeks ago, the hotel also rolled out drums to celebrate its 8th anniversary. This time, it decided to carry along the guests and other stakeholders to join in the celebration of the journey together since 2011 when they first had a taste of its offerings. As well, the recognition of the guests was due to the fact that there would not have been a celebration without the guests whose patronage has sustained the hotel in spite of the challenges in doing business in Nigeria since opening. The 2019 celebration had many exciting activities, especially the grand event tagged ‘The 8th Anniversary Cocktail’, where the guests relaxed in the most convivial atmosphere, had the best of food and drinks and also networked. According to the hotel management, the cocktail was aimed at appreciating the guests and stakeholders for the sustained patronage in the very competitive Lagos hotel market. As well, the hotel management used the 8th-anniversary cocktail platform to kick off the next chapter of its wonderful adventure together with the guests. The cocktail was not all about talks; amid the food and drinks, Femi Leye thrilled the guests with celebrity performance. Excited at the guests’ turnout at the evening, Simon Grindrod, general manager, The Wheatbaker Hotel, noted that the need to continually satisfy the guests has made the hotel to be innovative and to stay afloat for the eight years in business. He assured on the committed to sustain and improve on the feats, offering memorable and value for money experiences, and latching on innovations to refresh its offerings and create varieties for the guests. For, Adeniyi Ladipo, the sales and marketing director of the hotel, The Wheatbaker prides itself in great customer experience, which it has proficiently sold to customers since 2011. The Wheatbaker is a full-service luxury boutique hotel with 65 rooms, two restaurants, a boutique spa and gym and with sought after banqueting services by Nigeria’s fortune five hundred companies. The Wheatbaker also has a unique commitment to the arts, presenting specially curated exhibitions every quarter. The hotel has its own art collection which boasts some of the best Nigerian contemporary art. Since opening its doors in 2011, the Wheatbaker has quickly become one of the preferred hotels in Nigeria, winning yearly awards by industry leaders. It was voted Nigeria’s Leading Boutique Hotel by Travel Awards Africa & Indian Ocean in 2018, amid other awards.