Youths, under the aegis of Ibadan Youth Progressive Indigenes Association (IYPIA), have declared their support for the Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, following the judgment of the Court of Appeal, which affirmed his victory in the March 9, 2019 governorship election. The youth, cut across the 11 local government areas of Ibadan, on Wednesday, maintained that no one could bring down the government of Governor Makinde, who they said was massively voted into office by the people. They declared that Makinde’s mandate was a product of the majority of Oyo State residents, who they said, spoke with their votes in support of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the governorship election. The group, in a statement signed by its President-General, Kamorudeen Mudashiru Keji and the Publicity Secretary, Akindele Alabi Ibrahim, warned the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) to stop running around and trying to corner the people’s mandate through the courts. The IYPIA said that the people have already rejected the APC at the polls, adding that Governor Makinde made history on March 9 when he polled over 515,000 votes to win an unprecedented victory with a margin that no one has recorded in recent times. Read also: Adebayo Adelabu Ors Vs Seyi Makinde &#038; Ors: a review of the decision of the court of appeal The group stated that though it is non-partisan, its stance for truth, justice and progress of Oyo State would not afford it to keep quiet in the face of orchestrated attempt to steal the mandate of the people. The statement read: “Ibadan Youth Progressive Indigenes Association is a registered association with the Corporate Affairs Commission and it comprises Ibadan youths. “We have discovered the evil effort of some sets of politicians and opposition figures to upturn the will of God for our dear state by going through the back door to snatch a popular mandate delivered to Governor Seyi Makinde. “As a concerned youth group in Oyo State, we feel it is time we joined other youth groups from the four other zones of the state to stand up for Governor Makinde, a leader with a human face. It is disappointing that some political leaders, parties, and groups are working day and night to bring down the Makinde government. “Irrespective of parties, zones or religions, we believe that it is our responsibility to work with the decision of the masses. Oyo State people gave Makinde the mandate, so, we must all support him. “We view the activities of these individuals in the opposition party within and outside the state as undemocratic and anti-people, as they are trying not only to sabotage the efforts of Governor Seyi Makinde to restore the glory of the state but also take over the governorship seat through the back door. “Governor Makinde is governing Oyo State today based on the majority decision. The whole state spoke in support of him with their mandate and the governorship result is there for everyone to see and everyone knows that the election was free and fair.” According to the group, “APC not only lost that election, it had a woeful and disgraceful outing by winning in only five out of 33 local governments. But instead of the party to go and prepare for 2023, they are still looking for ways to corner the people’s mandate. They will not succeed. “Therefore, we youths across 11 local governments in Ibadan under the aegis of Ibadan Youth Progressive Indigenous Association (IYPIA) are imploring opposition parties’ leaders, statesmen, and groups who are conspicuously running around to truncate the people’s government to desist from such evil actions and rather, embrace, respect and support the God-chosen for the state.”  