While on a business trip, you often do not have time to savour ‘light’ offerings in the hotel even if they are complementary because of the need to make the most out of the engaging seminars, exhaustive meetings and in-depth paper presentations. If you had stayed at Radisson Blu Anchorage Hotel in Victoria Island, Lagos on such exhaustive business trips, it implied that you only had a glimpse of the Lagos Lagoon from your hotel room. Sad that there is so much fun to enjoy while in the hotel, but you did not do so because of a demanding engagement. However, Radisson Blu Anchorage Hotel is out to help you redeem the lost pleasure, rekindle and go with lasting memories of its leisure offerings whenever you visit during weekends. The hotel is opening its doors to lovers of quality leisure with a fantastic weekend offer, which comes with discounted weekend rates on rooms and suites, amid dinner, bed and breakfast. So, from now onwards, you can have a fulfilled weekend experience at the hotel by just making your reservations. Of course, more excitements await you on a weekend leisure trip. The enticement starts from the well-decorated front desk manned by motivated staff with infectious smiles and warmth. Stepping in further, each category of the hotel’s 170 rooms and suites comes with unique allure and enduring coziness. From the breathtaking Lagos Lagoon and to the sprawling Victoria Island, the rooms come with panoramic views. If you are a style lover or artistic, you will feel the creative ingenuity of Christian Lundwall, a Swedish designer, who styled all the rooms, while world class room amenities, especially elaborate bath facilities add to the comfort in the room. Tired of the room, the hotel features a wellness area, which lures guests to relax in the massage room, steam room and outdoor infinity pool. But the deal is in stepping out to see beyond the regular offerings. If you dare do that, you will discover that beyond being a stylish living space for business, Radisson Blu Anchorage Hotel is a leisure cove in Lagos. You will also discover rest on the banks of the beautiful Victoria Island. The beautifully designed hotel, which sits on the banks of the upscale Victoria Island, is truly dotted with scenic views of not only nature, but the up-and-coming city. During a stay, you are at home with nature as fresh lagoon breeze strokes the body with sustained mild massage. For the more adventurous, you can step further to the hotel exclusive jetty to take pictures, touch the lagoon water, have a closer view of boats cruising up and down the lagoon or for a boat cruise to see the beautiful side on Lagos on water. Such exclusive trips on water are becoming frequent now, especially with the recent launch of a cruise package to La Campagne Resort, a five-star African themed resort at Ikegun Ibeju Lekki, all the way on water. Like the code sharing among airlines, guests can decide to enhance their experience by sharing the stay between Radisson Blu Anchorage and La Campagne Resort. But if you do not want to take advantage of the jetty to undertake a cruise experience to the nearby attractions, you can relax at view or surface bar while sipping a well-mixed drink and eyes glued on the thro and fro movements of boats on the lagoon. The bars and adjoining leisure facilities including outdoor pool, and a play area are perfect for sundowners, as well as, offering exciting activities for the children, if it is a family outing. As well, beyond the fresh lagoon breeze, choice of drinks and food menu at the open bars, guests are often entertained by live bands that serenade beautiful music genres, especially highlife and mature tunes. But leisure experience at the hotel is further enhanced by the wonderful dining experience at the world class Voyage Restaurant offering international dishes, Nigerian cuisine among other delicacies crafted by a team of culinary professionals. You can also linger over a light meal on the terrace at Surface Bar & Grill. Moreover, the weekend package allows guests to inquire at check-in if they can upgrade to the next level category room at a minimal charge. But it is ideal to enroll as a Radisson Reward member and earn 20 points for every dollar spent during the weekend stay and redeem it at any of the Radisson Hotel Group properties across the globe. Beyond the weekend package, the hotel is keen on wooing discerning guests even with exciting Christmas offers that is coming soon.  OBINNA EMELIKE