The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed November 30 for the conclusion of the Kogi-West Senatorial election declared inconclusive last Saturday. INEC Returning Officer for Kogi West, Olayinde Lawal declared the election inconclusive on the ground that the 20 ,570 margin between the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Smart Adeyemi and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Dino Melaye was lower than the 43 ,127 registered voters in 53 polling units of 20 registration areas in the zone where elections were canceled. Consequently, the Commission in a statement on Thursday by its National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye said supplementary elections would be conducted in affected units. Okoye also announced that INEC will conduct run election for Ajaokuta Federal Constituency on the same day as ordered by recent court judgment. “The independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) met today Thursday 21st November, 2019 and fixed 30th November, 2019 for the conduct of the Supplementary and re-run elections for Kogi West Senatorial District and Ajaokuta Federal Constituency respectively. “At the conclusion of the court-ordercd Kogi West Senatorial re-run election on 16th November 2019, supplementary polls were indicated by the Collation/Retuning Officer for the Senatorial District, affecting 20 Registration Areas, 53 Polling Units and 46,767 Registered Voters spread across 7 Local Government Areas of the Senatorial District. “In addition the court ordered the conduct of Supplementary re-run poll in Ajaokuta Federal Constituency affecting 22 Polling Units. “Collation procedures shall be in line with extant Guidelines for Collation at the Supplementary polls. The list of affected Registration Areas and Polling Units will be uploaded on our website and communicated to the stakeholders in the respective Registration Areas and Polling Units. “We enjoin all the political parties and stakeholders to cooperate with the Commission for conclusive free and credible elections in the affected areas”, the statement read.