Once again, the year is coming to an end and a whole lot of destinations are pushing mouth-watering offers to woo would-be holidaymakers. Well, if you consider South Africa as your choice destination this holiday, it behoves to peep into The Maslow, the premium business hotel in Sandton, Johannesburg’s financial district. Beyond having an ethos that focuses on the needs of the business traveller, The Maslow offers superbly appointed facilities at the fingertips of the guests, which are crafted to ensure balance between work and recreation. The four-star hotel offers 281 rooms ranging from 239 luxury rooms, six family apartments, four junior suites, 14 luxury suites, and five executive suites. However, while the barrage of room categories offers guests competitive options, a visit to the hotel is not complete without a stay at the Executive Suites, which comes with a separate bedroom that sleeps two people in a king-size bed, a living room and seven accessible rooms. Epitomising luxury and exclusivity, the Executive Suites embody the glamour and excitement of Africa’s richest square mile. While in any of the five suites, it is commonplace for guests to seek sanctuary in the spacious comfort of their own lounges, or entertain in their private dining rooms. With a fully fitted kitchenette, these Sandton Executive Suites are also perfect for private meetings with clients and colleagues; this is most probably, the reason an average business traveller will choose The Maslow’s Executive Suites. Besides providing the perfect base from which to explore Johannesburg’s attractions, the suites, which are designed to meet all the business travel needs of the guests, also enable guests to optimize their stay as the perfect place to unwind after a long day of meetings, conferences and corporate events in South Africa’s business capital. While in the suites, it is tradition to wind down a long day with a luxurious Molten Brown bubble bath, and start your morning with an invigorating rain shower. With its 96 sqm / 1 033 sq ft, king-size bed, a bathroom with separate bath/shower and a guest bathroom, the suites are big enough for any kind of fun a guest wants. The guests can get busy on the room desk, replenish in the personal dining area, sip wine in the separate lounge area or do some special cooking in kitchenette with oven, dishwasher and refrigerator. Well, it is time to visit and experience the comfort of the Executive Suites. Of course, Sun International, the South African manager of The Maslow, is promising to create great memories for you while on a visit. 