Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has contributed N16 billion to the consolidated revenue fund, exceeding the budgeted sum of N 12 billion. The 133% increment is sequel to a number of measures put in place by the Agency such as effective monitoring of vessels, enforcement of laws, increased surveillance and debt recoveries. Peterside Dakuku, NIMASA Director-General made this known Tuesday while giving account of the 2019 budget performance before the House of Representatives Committee on Maritime Safety, Education and Administration. Dakuku explained that N110.84 billion was budgeted as targeted revenue for 2019 out of which N 83.49 billion representing 74% was realized while
N20 billion was spent out of the N28 billion allocated for the mandatory Maritime Fund. Giving the breakdown of the expenses for the 2019 budget, the NIMASA Director-General said, N20 billion was budgeted for personal emolument and N15.2 billion has been spent while overhead was allocated N24 billion but only N12 billion have been spent. He stated that, capital expenditure was pegged at N18 billion with only N1.5 billion spent as many contractors have not have not commenced work even though contracts have been awarded, adding that the Agency also released N2.5 billion to the Nigerian Maritime University, Okerenkoko, Delta State. While expressing delight over an impressive budget performance, Dakuku said, “as at October 31 contributed we N16 billion to consolidated revenue fund. We have since increase our contribution and in that contribution we have exceed our budget target. We have achieved 133% of what is expected of us. Paying to the consolidated revenue fund, Nigeria will have resources to build roads, railways and develop infrastructure. “We were able to achieve that because of a number of measures we put in place. Effective monitoring of vessels, enforcement of laws. We have also automated our pay systems. We have also commenced surveillance system. We have also commenced effective debt recovery programme”. Responding to questions by Members of the Committee, Dakuku the Agency was working seriously to ensure the review of existing maritime laws in the country to meet up contemporary demands of the industry, disclosing that very seen executive bills on Maritime laws amendment would be sent to National Assembly. In her remarks before the exercise went closed door, Chairman of the Committee, Lynda Ikpeazu (PDP, Anambara) commended the Agency for exceeding its targeted contribution to the consolidated revenue fund and assured it of support of the Committee to realize its statutory mandate.  James Kwen, Abuja