A group, the All Progressive Cultural Club (APCC) has kicked against the Interim Management Committee (IMC) board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) appointed by the Minister for Niger Delta Godswill Akpabio. The group described the composition of the board as illegal and disheartening while expressing surprise that the Minister hurriedly acted against the directives of President Muhammadu Buhari who had earlier send the names of the Chairman and Directors of the NDDC to the Senate for confirmation. In a statement to Journalists in Lagos, Thursday, signed by the group’s national president, Benjamin Isokariari, they noted that President Buhari and Senate President, Ahmed Lawan which nominated and screen the nominees acted in accordance with the law. “It is disheartening to think that an IMC inaugurated in the middle of the night that took over from another IMC with questionable records, will ask a properly constituted board by President that was cleared in broad daylight by the Senate to stand down indefinitely and not resume work. Read also: NDDC boss vows to defend the people’s asset, amid growing pressure “How can the President set up a board and send the names of the Chairman and Directors of an Agency, that is as sensitive as the NDDC to the Senate to be Confirmed within one week and someone quickly inaugurates an IMC board on the same day or same night.” The group further expressed shock by the actions of Godswill Akpabio, which according to them was against his progressive ideas and laudable achievement as a former governor of Akwaibom State which had endeared him to Nigerians. “The Body language of the Niger Delta Minister Godswill Akpabio makes it obvious that he is throwing his weight behind the IMC, which is actually very surprising to many of us in the Niger Delta, especially with his landmark performance as Governor of Akwa Ibom State.” “However, it might interest you to note that if there’s a breakdown of law and order in the Niger-Delta especially as it concerns the NDDC and other oil-related issues today, the government will not have leaders to negotiate peace with. “We of the APC Club hereby, state in unequivocal terms that the IMC should stand down with immediate effect for the love and respect of President Muhammadu Buhari who is our most respected Leader in the Land and should be allowed to have his way in governing the Country how he deems fit. “For the love of the Niger-Delta, a region that is rich in oil and one, that is prone to pipeline vandalism that can unsettle the relative peace we enjoy as a people, cause youths restiveness and affect the economy of the Nation.