BusinessDay Media Limited has further consolidated its position in Capital Market Reporting as it emerges winner of the 2019 PEARL Media Award. Tayo Orekoya, president of Pearl Awards, while speaking on the theme of the 2019 edition “Celebrating Sustainable Leadership and Resilience” said the event was recognising leaders who represent beacons of hope for the capital market. Published by BusinessDay Media Limited, BusinessDay Newspaper is the leading medium for up-to-date news and insightful analysis of business, policy and the economy in Nigeria. The newspaper, which has produced many award-winning journalists is read chiefly by the business community in oil and gas, banks, blue-chip companies, educational institutions, among others, as well as policymakers and managers of government business. BusinessDay is a critical tool for managers, investors and governments who rely on it to make informed decisions. “The PEARL Awards remains the only Awards in Nigeria that rewards outstanding performance of quoted companies in the Nigerian capital market based on verifiable facts and figures. We remain humbled that our impartiality, transparency, fairness and unbias have continued to endear us to major stakeholders in the capital market. We commit to uphold and be sustainably guided by these principles”, Orekoya added. He noted that the PEARL Awards will expand its scope to cover the fixed income securities, derivatives and registrars space. He also said the board is also working out modalities for establishing the “African” version by 2021. At the event, the Acting Director-General of the Securities and Exchange Commission Mary Uduk commended the PEARL Awards team for its legacy of driving excellence and competitiveness in the capital market. She assured stakeholders of the continued support of the Apex regulator for efforts towards rewarding hardwork, dedication, ingenuity and excellence in the capital market. Chairman of the Board of SEC Nigeria Olufemi Lijadu commended the PEARL Awards for evolving for over two decades and remaining consistent in its drive to support the growth of the capital market. Abiodun Adedipe, an economist and board member of PEARL Awards in the presentation of the “Nigerian Stock Market Annual” 2020 edition noted that a key takeaway from the report was that Nigeria and West Africa remained key destinations for attracting private equity and even venture capital investments. He noted from the report that the government should explore catalyzing the growth of the commodities exchange market to help diversify the economy and give it revenue earnings.  Iheanyi Nwachukwu