In a bid to drive academic excellence and as part of its corporate social responsibility, the West Africa Pipeline Company (WAPCo) has held its sixth annual quiz and debate competition for secondary school students in Lagos and Ogun states respectively. Participants were drawn from ten schools in each of the states, with three representatives from each school for the quiz and two for the debate sessions. The debate was focused on climate change with the topic ‘Is climate change a threat to humanity?’ with students debating for or against the statement. The subjects covered in the quiz were Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics, English Language, Current Affairs, and Government. Rhoda Robinson, executive director of HACEY Health Initiative who judged the debate competition advised the students to maximize every opportunity to learn. “The primary goal of knowledge is to use it to make the world a better place. This debate encourages students to seek out knowledge and find ways to use it to improve their society,” Robinson said. She encouraged students and guests present to take active roles in mitigating the effects of climate change and protect the environment. Similarly, Temitope Sodehinde, external relations coordinator, WAPCo, stated that these programmes were put in place in fulfilment of the organisation’s mandate to consciously affect the society within which it operates, through investments in health and environmental preservation, education, and provision of social services. Sodehinde stated that WAPCo has made investments in education through the donation of furnished modern classroom blocks with offices and stores to schools in local communities in Lagos and Ogun States respectively. Also in the health sector through donating four fully equipped modern hospitals with staff quarters and providing access to safe water in host communities by donating boreholes, he further said. He added that the organisation has invested over $2million in various skill acquisition, education scholarships, and livelihood programs. At the end of the competition, Ajara Senior Grammar School, Badagry, came first in the quiz competition for Lagos while Lagos State Model College took the trophy for the best debating team. In Ogun, Iganmode Grammar School took both trophies as they came top for both the quiz and debate competitions. Students and teachers present said they were happy with the event and that they looked forward to the next edition to make their mark. The events were held in Lagos at the main auditorium of the Administrative Staff College of Nigeria (ASCON), Badagry, while the Ogun version at the Conference Hall of the Maridom Palace Hotel, Ota. 