The Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) has upbraided Femi Falana (SAN) for his false claim that President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) were planning a third term in office. BMO said in a statement signed by its Chairman, Niyi Akinsiju and Secretary, Cassidy Madueke, that “after a careful evaluation of Falana’s address at an event in Lagos recently, we have come to the conclusion that Falana has become a purveyor of fake news in Nigeria, and a very recent example will suffice. He was on record to have alleged at a public function that the former presidential candidate of the Young Progressives Party (YPP), Professor Kingsley Muoghalu had decamped to the APC. “This fake news elicited many negative reactions from Nigerians against Mr. Falana and he had to apologise for not doing due diligence before making the pronouncement. “We, therefore, note with sadness that Mr. Falana is once again toeing the same line by alleging that President Muhammadu Buhari has plans for a third term. This unfounded claim is not only malicious and an outright falsehood, but it is also a calculated attempt to drag the name of the President in the mud.” The group further said: “For the avoidance of doubt, we need to remind Falana that President Buhari remains a man of integrity who will never toe the inglorious path of former President Olusegun Obasanjo who sought a third term or former President Goodluck Jonathan who also wanted an elongation in a six-year single tenure for presidents. “Buhari is conscious of the trust and mandate Nigerians gave him, and under no circumstances will he renege on the people’s confidence.” BMO reminded Falana that President Buhari and his team are focused on changing the lives of Nigerians for the better, and rebuilding the country’s infrastructure and institutions to serve Nigerians. “He is not in the mould of power-hungry politicians whose only stock-in-trade is to line their pockets with public funds, rather, his foray into politics is altruistic, and he will not deviate from this set goal.” The group enjoined Nigerians to “totally disregard the falsehood being peddled by Mr. Femi Falana as they are mere conjectures and figment of his own imagination. We can vouch that there is no substance in the claim, rather it is meant to deceive Nigerians into believing fairy tales. “Finally, we want to remind Falana and his co-travellers that under President Muhammadu Buhari, no effort will be invested in changing the Constitution of the land for the interest of one man or a few individuals.”