The newly crowned clan head of Oniong in Onna Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, Etebom Samuel Efik has advised Local Government Councils to expand their Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) base rather than depend solely on the monthly allocations from the Federal Government. Efik said the councils should make more efforts to generate revenue internally, saying it would “greatly alleviate the economic and unemployment challenges prevalent in every Local Government in the country.” He advised them to establish mechanised farming schemes in their areas to provide employment to the teeming unemployed youths. “The idea of local governments having to depend solely on Federal Government monthly allocation is lamentable,” he said. Speaking during his coronation ceremony, the Royal Father also kicked against superstitious beliefs and some harmful traditional practices including “the unsavoury practice of coercing widows to choose another member of the late husband’s family as her new spouse bespeaks the repugnancy of our traditional biases.” According to him, “We need to educate our people that it is not witchcraft that causes every misfortune that befalls us, such as sickness, joblessness or death, we need to open our minds to the fact that self-employment is often not only more beneficial but also very achievable for most of us.” Efik, a lawyer, urged the people “to move away from the relics of the ignorant and self-limiting past” and thanked the governor for finding him worthy to be recognised as the Clan Head of Oniong and promised to offer himself for the service of his people. In his remarks, Governor Udom Emmanuel gave assurance that the state government is committed to partnering with the royal fathers to ensure sustainable peace and development of the state. The governor, who was represented by the Commissioner of Works, Ephraim Inyangeyen said the state government, in according recognition and respect to traditional rulers, has moved to strengthen the partnership with the royal fathers as part of efforts to ensure peace in all communities of the state. “We hold the traditional rulers in the highest esteem, with their support contributions, peace and development will continue to reign in the local government areas of the state,” he said. The governor, who commended the people of the clan for the spirit of brotherhood, described the new Clan Head as an accomplished professional and called on the people to rally around him to ensure that the clan will continue to be one the leading clans in the local government. Speaking also, Onofiok Luke, a member of the House of Representatives and former Speaker of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, said the coronation was a testament to his courage, dedication and principles to the values that define the industrious nature of the Oniong people. Luke, who was one of the dignitaries honoured with a chieftaincy title during the coronation ceremony, urged the new clan head to rule the people with wisdom to ensure peace and prosperity in the area. The ceremony, which attracted members of the political class, the business community, women and youths from all parts of the state, was chaired by Edidem Ntuk Obom X11, the paramount ruler of Ikot Abasi Local Government Area.