Explore a new world with Okadabooks this weekend. Boom Boom by Jude Idada Osaik is an eight-year-old boy. He is charming and has an unusual ability to hear things no one else hears. His world is thrown into disarray when a debilitating disease takes his mother from him. Despite his grief, he has to find a way of saving his little sister, Eghe, from the same disease. Alongside his dad, and Kompa his dog, they begin a race to get her all the help she needs. It is not an easy one, because at every turn there is a new obstacle to avoid and a new hurdle to climb. In this dramatic, fast-paced story of loss, faith and hope, the limits of love, sacrifice, friendship, loyalty and family ties are tested as they struggle to save his sister’s life brings Osaik and those around him to a new knowledge of the world they can see, the world they cannot see, and the part of themselves they never knew existed. Read Now  Origin of the Cabal by Boro Baggins A historical fiction of horror and vengeance set in Nigeria during the 1960s, Origin of the Cabal recounts the roles of four characters who shaped a six-year-old nation in a critical time: President Uzzi, an evil genius and game-changer of Nigeria’s politics; Major Carrick, the soldier with a political ideology and head of Military Intelligence; Major Ifejindu, the spiteful soldier and Brigade Commander in Lagos, the country’s capital; and Ibraheem, a grass root politician. As his secret guards, President Uzzi initiates a group of highly educated army officers who call themselves the revolutionaries. When the revolutionaries committed a blunder at Lagos, President Uzzi allows his weaknesses have the better of him, as he once said, ‘when it is clear you’ve asked for too much, there’s only one way out. Ask for something bigger.’ Seeing that the revolutionaries have failed, President Uzzi quickly forms a ruling Cabal that is to run the government in perpetuity. Mr. President has bitten more than he can chew. The consequences are inevitable. Enjoy the drama. Read Now  Underbridge by Eugene Odogwu What if there’s a place beneath all bridges where all the shadows meet? Where blood is gold and an old man wears a necklace of finger bones? What if there is a place where white widows prowl, where stories get lost and the only way out is a toll of flesh? What if that place is called Underbridge? A young man gets on a red bus and ends up in a strange place beneath Lagos City. Desperate to get back to the real world, he is hunted by strange creatures who are intent on draining him dry as he encounters unfathomable beings that lurk in the deepest, darkest places beneath the city. Read Now  The Domestication of Munachi by Ifesinachi. O. Okpagu On a hot Sunday afternoon years ago… …Two sisters walk in on their father’s sexual liaison with the family’s hired help which leaves them both scarred in different ways. Years later… Unable to bear the thought of marriage to a man she barely knows, the younger and more adventurous one, Munachi, runs away from home on the eve of her traditional marriage, unwittingly resurrecting a long-buried feud between her religious mother and eccentric aunty. This conflict leaves a door open for the family’s destruction. The Domestication of Munachi is a novel about the unnecessary pressure on women to take on life partners, regardless of who these partners are and the psychological impacts seen through the stories of two sets of sisters—Munachi and Nkechi versus Chimuanya and Elizabeth. Read Now     