With line-up of gospel artistes and a packed schedule designed to keep worshippers captivated throughout the night, ‘The Experience’ 2019, a gospel music concert themed ‘Let’s Worship Jesus’ is poised to exceed its reputation as one of the major highlights of the festive season as to Christmas approaches. As usual, the 14th edition of music concert will hold at on Friday 6 December at the Tafawa Balewa Square, Onikan from 7pm till dawn and is expected to set Christian faithful and all participants in to a moment of endless praise and worship as they celebrate the yuletide. ‘The Experience’ began with a God-inspired vision in 2006 and has become one of the largest gospel music concerts in this side of the globe as well as a favourite destination event for music enthusiasts from all over the nation, the continent and the world. According to Paul Adefarasin, the convener and senior pastor of the House on the Rock churches, “The Experience is a significant contributor to both our national and state economies through tourism and its associated businesses. Entrepreneurs have developed and birthed various enterprises, which substantially contribute to the economy in areas of human capital development, hospitality, commerce and industry.” According to Adefarasin, it was conceived as a platform where anyone who wants to encounter God for himself or herself. However, The Experience has since evolved into a melting pot where hundreds of thousands of people regardless of class, race, tribe, tradition, colour, religion or even the weather, gather to worship and praise God from dusk till dawn. Regardless of its many benefits, people throng the venue for one major reason; usually to have a divine experience, and this year’s edition promises a whole new level of intimacy in worship like never before. ‘The Experience’ concert remains free for all and is a must-attend for one and all. “So get ready and brace yourself for an unforgettable night of pure exhilarating worship,” the organisers promised. The roster of award-winning Nigerian and international gospel artistes scheduled to grace the Experience 2019 stage include Travis Greene, Sinach, Nathaniel Bassey, Don Moen, Donnie McClurkin, Tope Alabi, Planetshakers, Chioma Jesus, Eben, Sammie Okposo, The Lagos Metropolitan Gospel Choir including newcomers to The Experience stage; Todd Dulaney, Mercy Chinwo and Preye Odede.  SEYI JOHN SALAU