The All Progressives Congress (APC) on Sunday described the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP’s) reported plan to boycott and call for postponement of the November 30 Kogi West Senatorial supplementary election as a silly joke. According to APC, the PDP candidate, Dino Melaye did not win the 2019 National Assembly election for the Kogi West Senatorial District as firmed by Appeal Court. Lanre Issa-Onilu, APC National Publicity Secretary in a statement also said the Kogi West electorate resisted and frustrated Melaye and PDP plan to again, rig the November 16 rerun election for the Senatorial seat. Issa-Onilu insisted that no level of propaganda and fake news can change these hard facts even as the PDP has predictably gone to town with the usual lamentations on the forthcoming supplementary election and threatened to boycott the election, asking: “who is fooling who?”. He stated that: “Nobody is fooled by the PDP’s statement boycotting the supplementary election. The All Progressives Congress (APC) will not drop its guard in our quest to get a clear majority of the remaining votes in the affected units. “Why should the supplemetary election be cancelled as being demanded by the PDP? Is it because the PDP has already lost the election? “As the wide margin of valid votes from the November 16 exercise show, it is clear that Dino Melaye and the PDP have lost the election. PDP’s doomsday will surely not be postponed a second time. Come November 30, the APC candidate, Senator Smart Adeyemi will reclaim his earlier stolen mandate. “How many times does the PDP need to be reminded that APC has not and will not copy the PDP’s inglorious tactics of using state institutions, particularly INEC, the judiciary and security agencies to manipulate the electioneering process?”. The APC Spokesman further noted that the business of the National Assembly is a serious one, equally meant for serious and patriotic-minded persons and the Kogi electorate has decidedly rejected individuals who sacrificed national interest to achieve their selfish political agenda. He added that: “Nigerians will recall the lead roles Senator Dino Melaye played in frustrating the 2019 budget, legislative approval for INEC’s election budget, and executive interventions requiring Senate approvals. Commendably, those days are gone as the Nigerian electorate have thrown out the unpatriotic and sabotaging legislators. The National Assembly and the executive now enjoy a cordial relationship that ensures good governance and brings dividends to the people. “We call on INEC and relevant security agencies to ensure that everything needed to make the November 30 senatorial supplementary election in Kogi transparent, free, credible and safe is put in place”.  James Kwen, Abuja