Chukwunonso Ezekwueche, a registered pharmacist in Nigeria who worked for a few years in the community practice before relocating permanently to Canada in 2017, has carved a niche for himself as an exceptional fashion influencer in Canada, thereby meeting the needs of several brands. Ezekwueche, who developed an interest in fashion at a young age, turned out to be a fashion influencer, as he currently works with brands in the fashion and lifestyle industry to promote awareness and recognition on Instagram where he creates content for these brands with the aim of showing men how to dress on a budget as well as influencing their buying decisions. The fashion influencer, who is of the opinion that one does not necessarily need to splurge on expensive designer labels to look fabulous, has a tagline ‘Showing men how to dress without breaking the bank.’ Speaking on what motivated him into going into this line of business, he said, “After I moved to Canada, I observed that the fashion scene was still struggling when compared to USA, Paris and Milan. I felt I could meet the needs in my own little way, so I rebranded my social media and started showing men that they could dress on a budget and still make a fashion statement. I have been in the influencing business for almost three years.” Ezekwueche believes his business strategy is sustainable and unique because it appeals to everyone, both young and old. He noted that nobody wants to spend thousands of dollars on a suit, for example, when they can buy a more affordable one  that still looks good. “The tagline ‘Showing men how to dress without breaking the bank’ is quite a catch because in this day and age of job cuts and unemployment, people want to know how to save more money and put it towards other needs. I strongly believe that my business model resonates with everyone and is here for the long haul. On the other hand, being a new immigrant in a foreign country has its drawbacks, but I see every situation as an opportunity to learn and grow.” He said his tagline was borne out of the need to correct a wrong mindset in most people that the more expensive the outfit, the more heads you turn. “This is not always the case. I believe that style comes from within, your poise, your energy and how you carry yourself. Fashion can be bought, style one must possess.” On how far the brand has lived up to its tagline, the fashion influencer said, “I almost do not have any expensive designer labels in my wardrobe, not that I have something against them but I don’t see the need when there are cheaper alternatives. You will not catch me wearing anything I can’t really afford just because I want to impress people. The companies I have worked and am currently working have products whose price range appeals to the average man’s pocket.” When asked if he is able to meet the demands of Nigerian men in Canada through his brand, he said, “One cup of water does not make a mighty occasion, but I have had success introducing them to where I shop and how to get more affordable clothing. Social media is a very powerful learning platform. I just live my truth and people emulate.” Ezekwueche, who shared some success stories with BusinessDay, said he  has enjoyed tremendous growth in his social media platform and has gained recognition as an authority as a fashion influencer in Toronto. He said he has worked with a handful of brands in Canada and have been privileged to be invited to and be a part of Toronto Fashion Week, African Fashion Week Toronto, International Fashion Encounter Toronto, Fashion Forward, When Fashion Meets and a bunch of other VIP events. “I have had so many press features from Nigeria, Canada and the USA. I have been featured in notable Nigerian newspapers and other online news platforms such as Vanguard, The Nation, Sunnewsonline, Legit, and PM news. I am currently a fashion contributor for www.pulse.ng where I educate men on how to dress. The best is yet to come,” he added. Some of the brands Ezekwueche has worked with include Fashionnova, Original Penguin, Daniel Wellington, Linkedin, Huawei, World Remit, Beckett Simonon, Ace Marks, American Tourister Canada, Alfred Sung, Peter Hunt, and Champs Luggage, among others. He said that his versatility stands him out from other fashion influencers. “I don’t just stick to one style, I think it’s boring to have one style. I am able to pull off different kinds of outfits. One day, you will see me in a suit, the next day in ripped jeans and t-shirt. I like to keep people guessing what I would wear next. I like to make my page look a fashion catalogue where people could choose a style from what I have worn and replicate it or even add their own unique touch and make it better.” The fashion influencer is also empowering aspiring fashion influencers. According to him, “We rise by lifting others. I get tons of direct messages on Instagram from up and coming influencers asking me to mentor them on how to get started. In fact, I have written a few published articles on how I became an influencer and how to pitch and work with brands.”