The Cuppy Foundation, founded by Florence “Cuppy” Otedola, is set to host its inaugural Gold Gala on Sunday, November 10th, 2019 at Congress Hall, Transcorp Hilton, Abuja. The special dinner is organized to support the works for “Save the Children” organization in Nigeria. The evening will focus on conversations based around some of Save the Children’s initiatives such as bettering the lives of children in Nigeria who are in conflict and also tackling malnutrition. The gala will feature various segments including an auction packed with unique items, a cocktail reception and finally a private dinner with special performances. “The Gold Gala is just the start in driving awareness and creating change for our precious Nigerian Children. Save the Children believes children are our future – they are, and the future is now.” – Cuppy Otedola. The Cuppy Foundation has announced that the Vice President of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (GCON), will be the special guest of honour at the inaugural Gold Gala. All proceeds generated from this event will go towards The Cuppy Foundation programs that will benefit thousands of Nigerians in need. The Cuppy Foundation is an establishment aimed at tackling issues surrounding young females, education for girls, and persons with disabilities (minorities). This Foundation was born out of a passion deep within her founder to give individuals who have been forgotten and relegated to the background of society a chance at building the life they desire, a chance that every individual on earth deserves. Save the Children was established in the United Kingdom in 1919 in order to improve the lives of children through better education, health care, and economic opportunities, as well as providing emergency aid in natural disasters, war, and other conflicts. The organisation operates in over 120 countries around the World. Save the Children is working in Nigeria because one in five children in Nigeria dies before their fifth birthday. About 40% of children miss out on school and have to work to survive while nearly 2 million children have lost one or both parents to an AIDS-related disease.