As All Progressive Congress Party (APC) rounds off its campaign for the 2019 gubernatorial election slated for November 16, Governor Yahaya Bello has said he was already getting the aroma of victory. Addressing APC faithful at the Confluence Stadium, Lokoja, Bello, who spoke with excitement and happiness, said on November 17, President Mohammadu Buhari will come and welcome his son that has been re-elected for a second tenure. The incumbent governor also pointed out that ethnicity is what has drawn Nigeria backward, saying, “But I want to assure you that thugs will run out from Kogi very soon. We will show them that we have come. Come out en masse and vote. Make sure that nobody intimidates you and if they try it catch them with your hands. Great Nigerian youths am smelling Victory”. Nasir El-Rufai, chairman, campaign Kogi State gubernatorial election, said victory is APC’s on Saturday, adding that they have come not only to re-elect Bello but to bury People’s Democratic Party (PDP). PDP has ruled this state for a long time and has done nothing for this state, stressing that many people said that Bello is young, but “I am on my knees on his behalf; am kneeling down to beg all of you. Many people are saying he is young and he has made mistakes. He did everything to bring progress to this state. We must work for progress. We must hate ethnicity”. El-Rufai also pleaded with the people of Kogi to vote for Smart Adeyemi in the forthcoming rerun senatorial election between him and Dino Melaye, adding that Kogi people must not repeat the previous mistakes. On Ajaokuta Steel, he said that it was because of it that Buhari travelled to Russia; with their support after 50 years Ajaokuta Steel Company will bounce back to life after 50 years. “So vote for Yahaya Bello and Smart Adeyemi if you do not want Kogi to die. Apart from the governorship election; there is a re-run election in Kogi West; you must all come out and vote for Smart Adeyemi. You must not repeat the previous mistake,” he said.  VICTORIA NNAKAIKE, LOKOJA