The Federal House of Representatives has said it would support Nigerian Communication Satellite (NIGCOMSAT) in actualizing full commercialization in other to enable the agency impact more on its mandate while increasing revenue yield for the government. This support by the lower legislative chamber would enable NIGCOMSAT in the realization of its set objectives as well as meeting its contributions toward the actualization of a sustainable digital economy in Nigeria. The Chairman, House Committee on Information and Communication Technology (ICT), Abubakar Suleija who spoke during an oversight visit to NIGCOMSAT in Abuja ,said if NIGCOMSAT were properly managed it would generate Trillions of Naira. Suleija who led other members of the committee said, “I was amazed and on the other hand I was disappointed if a country like Nigeria, because this is my first time of coming here, I have been hearing of NIGCOMSAT, this is my first time of coming to NIGCOMSAT office and station. What I’ve seen here and kind of a negligence from the both sides I felt disappointed because it is a dilapidated structure. If it is properly put in place. We can generate Trillions of Naira and do away with oil.” He said Speaking further he said, “we have gone round and we have seen what is on ground and we will do the needful to see how we can put our heads together help NIGCOMSAT come to reality.” On the issue of inadequate funding he promised to take the issue to Mr. President “We will have to do something about the policy because I know they have challenges. The issue of funding; they need aggressive intervention and I will personally take the issue to Mr. President because I know Mr. President’s plan on diversifying the economy.” He added He criticised Nigeria business men who patronise foreign satellite instead of our own Nigerian satellite, “It is a common knowledge that portfolio businessmen prefer to patronize foreign satellite resources which to me is not only expensive but a disservice to the nation’, He said. Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer,Abimbola Alale,described the visit as timely as their support would enable the company positioned itself towards better service delivery to Nigerian people. ‘We are encouraged by your visit and mindful of advises given, we want to assure you that we shall work very hard to meet the expectations of Nigerians and the KPIs set by the HM MoCDE to put the company on the pact of better service delivery and greater visibility. It is my belief that with good legislative support, NIGCOMSATshall reposition itself as a key revenue earner for the government. She stated. According to her, “with the support for commercialization, the company will be better challenged to carry out its function well and also create room for employment as more regional offices would be opened.”  Stella Enenche, Abuja