Against The Run Of Play by Olusegun Adeniyi Against the Run of Play takes an intense look at Nigerian politics at a time when an entrenched political party was defeated in a presidential election after 16 unbroken years in power. This book offers the reader a narrative explanation and an unusual insight into the major human and institutional factors that led up to the defeat of President Goodluck Jonathan in 2015. Read Now Breaking The Coconut by Chris Umeh Two things happen when you break a coconut: You have the water spill and the coconut meat for consumption. It’s true that some coconuts don’t have water in them, but people say they are tastier. However, the first thing that comes out of most coconuts is the water and that’s not what the coconut is all about. Some of us are smart enough to quench our thirst with the water, while others do away with it and go for the main deal. Whichever way, the real coconut has two offers all in the promise of one. Breaking the coconut is a story of young Africans who in their journey had affected their peers and communities in ordinary ways that turned out extraordinary irrespective of life’s curveballs. They made their mark and are now on different timelines in their lives. Here are some of the inspiring lessons they share in their journey and moments that broke them. This serves as a heads-up to the next generation of game-changers. Read Now I See Things Other Do Not See by Roy Ofili Chukwudi B. is not normal. he has the Sight, the ability to see into the spiritual realm, to perceive that which others cannot see. And you can imagine this gets him into all sorts of trouble. In this first book of the series, Chukwudi introduces us into his life, his abilities and how he has been coping. He also falls in love with Nina, a not so ordinary girl whose entry into his life brings about complications and consequences that he could have never imagined. Read Now  Getting A Good Job Easily by Jimi Tewe It is a fact that a whole lot of people around are unemployed, a large percentage of them being graduates who have been seeking for a placement for years. The irony is that while these job seekers are complaining about lack of jobs, companies are also complaining about not being able to identify many good candidates. If you are currently among the large number of job seekers, I would like you to revive your hope of getting a job quickly and easily as you align your thinking and practice the steps outlined in this book. As you launch out again to get the good job available for you, I trust that this time, you will be successful! Jimi Tewe. Read Now       