Enjoy your life with Okadabooks this weekend. Men Don’t Die by Ever Obi In the possession of stolen lucre, Brume Lauva takes a big step and decides to run away from the life he has had for more than a decade; one of consistent failures, a girlfriend that shattered his heart, and a last feeble grip on a broken dream. Lagos, he believes, could offer another chance at life, where he could mend his broken heart and, perhaps, start to dream again. But en route to his land of promise, a fatal bus crash occurs and Brume is the only survivor—without a scratch. He flees the scene of the accident and hitchhikes his way to Lagos. In Lagos, he begins to live again. He gets reconnected to a long-lost friend, with whom he shared dreams in the university. He invests the stolen money and finds love again. He gets all he craved on a plate—money, comfort and something resembling happiness. But there is more to this world—a monumental text that would change his life forever. MEN DON’T DIE is a thought-provoking story of love and money; death and spiritualism. About a man’s personal struggles against the unfairness of life, in search of true happiness. Read Now Ruffled Butterflies by Ayotunde Mamudu “Till death do us part…” Seemingly innocent transgressions like squeezing toothpaste or leaving pee on the toilet seat lie in wait to trip up these characters who in turn become so stifled by their partners that they can’t wait for death to part them. Some stories in this collection end with cliff-hangers, making room for self-reflection and numerous possible endings. These thirteen stories traverse various domestic issues that call for more meaningful steps than grumbling, as the Morgans, Olabisi, Kayode, Vera and John soon find out. Ruffled butterfly wings are used as imagery for the delicate family ties of everyday people who are sewn together in marriage. Suspenseful, dramatic, romantic and dipped in an amalgam of Nigerian and Western cultures, these relationships pass through crucibles with the couples spreading their ruffled, ripped mosaic wings to flutter and fly against all odds. Read Now Pegees’ Tales: A Collection of Short Stories by Enavize Gordon This book is a collection of three stories; “Bounce Back,” “The need to Exhale,” and “Me and you.” What do you do when the whole world fights against you for a crime that is not your fault, do you give up and end it all or do fight back with all you have, owning your truth? “Bounce Back is a story of resilience, even in the face of adversity. “The Need to Exhale” is a story based on the strength to stand up for what is right, and redeem oneself. It is an intriguing story of a woman dealing with infertility, domestic violence, and emotional abuse. Bimbo’s story is one of hope that we can successfully overcome struggles and rise. I hope this story impacts and creates an awareness in the minds of readers. The magic we seek for in distant places might be precisely where we are, right in front of us, just waiting till we realize there is Gold at home. Fresh off a relationship with his long-time girlfriend; Jeannie, the last thing Andre expected was to fall for his best friend, but life is always full of surprises, and we can never predict its next course of action. Happy has been best friends with Andre for the longest and has had a secret crush on him that she hopes would one day disappear. She values her friendship with Andre so much so that she prefers they remain friends. With everything going on, it begins to prove hard to ignore her feelings. Would she come to accept it, and if so, what next? Would they remain best friends, or would their life-long friendship come to an end? Enjoy Happy and Andres’s journey to realization. Read Now 