VIVA Cinemas, a movie theater in Nigeria, is concluding arrangements to officially launch as a brand into the Nigerian market by March 2020. Situated in four cities of Ilorin, Ibadan, Ota, Enugu, VIVA is also perfecting plans to expand into Lagos market as preparations are on ground to ensure that the Ikeja outlet becomes operational before December this year. This would bring VIVA Cinemas’ locations to five in Nigeria. Speaking to newsmen in Lagos recently, Heri Ntimizi, CEO of VIVA Cinemas said the company will use January to do a preparation for the official launch of VIVA as a brand owing to the fact that it has not been officially introduced to the public. He said VIVA understands the thrill and excitement that a vibrant blend of retail, leisure and entertainment provides, and it offers an unforgettable cinema experience that everyone can enjoy. According to him, VIVA uses 4K resolution technology, which has an incredible improvement over standard high definition (HD), and this technology has helped to revolutionalise cinematic experience for Nigerians. “On 16:9 ratios, 4K contains almost four times the pixels of HD. This means 4K has a clearer and more detailed image with a higher pixel count that also allows for closer viewing by the audience without loss in quality of the content on the screen,” he said. With 4K technology, Ntimizi said, VIVA offers an amazing mix of experiences designed to treat viewers to great moments each time and every time, as movie goers can indulge in an immersive cinema experience choosing from a variety of Nollywood, Hollywood and Bollywood blockbuster titles. “On a bigger screen, the 4K image is simply better, such that some people who have witnessed a long-distance shot rendered in 4K have mistaken it for glasses-free 3D! The larger the screen, the more 4K is required due to the inevitable pixel enlargement. At VIVA Cinemas, we like to ensure definition is maintained and at a minimal viewing cost,” he assured. He said that since 2015, VIVA Cinemas has been the first and only exhibitor in Nigeria to utilise the 4K cinema projectors, which offers the only 4K projection solution that delights audiences to incredible picture and sound clarity in 2D and silky smooth, lifelike 3D images. Inuagbor Abass, head of Operations said VIVA Cinemas have a total of 20 screens and a 3,000 seating capacity across its five locations. “VIVA currently holds between 17-25 percent market shares of screens occupancy across Nigeria, and with great expansion plans over the next few years, to several cities in Nigeria and across West Africa, it’s betting on itself to achieve even greater success,” she said. According to her, theatre-goers are now becoming more discerning and well-educated when it comes to fundamental questions of brightness and resolution on the screen, and with our innovative systems, we are unlocking the true power of visual fidelity and quality in the cinematic experience. She however, noted that asides the movie experience on the screens, VIVA has a team across its cinemas that are committed to creating thrilling entertainment and leisure destinations that teleport visitors from their everyday lives into an extraordinary world of magic. “In addition to blockbuster releases across all its locations, VIVA Cinemas’ service offering includes corporate and private group bookings, tailored advertising and experiential events in collaboration with partner brands, alternative content such as theatre, the performing arts, comedy shows and other live events with Coca Cola as their leading partner,” she listed. Abass further said that VIVA brand’s ethos is innovation in technology, excellent service and an optimal customer experience. AMAKA ANAGOR-EWUZIE