Enhancing Financial Innovation & Access (EFInA) is set for its annual Financial Inclusion Conference holding in Lagos on the 9th of December 2019 at the Eko Hotel and Suites.  Speaking on the annual conference, Segun Akerele the company’s board chairman said “the conference seeks to engage stakeholders in the financial sector in identifying opportunities to promote financial inclusion and the sector’s development by creating a platform to identify institutional bottlenecks, proffer solutions, and establish principles required to achieve the national financial inclusion objectives.”  The 2019 edition of the annual conference is themed “Unlocking the Potential in Every Nigerian: The Path to Inclusive Economic Growth”. it plans to examine the transformative power of financial inclusion and it’s potential to accelerate inclusive economic growth through poverty reduction, employment generation, and wealth creation.  In partnership with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), EFInA will also, be launching the findings of the recently concluded research on “Assessment of Women’s Financial Inclusion in Nigeria”. This research was funded by the Gates Foundation in order to understand the factors driving the gender gap in accessing financial services in Nigeria and to identify solutions to address the gap. Read also: How FirstBank Fintech summit is contributing to bridge Nigeria’s financial inclusion The conference theme will be examined under three main topics which are: “The Role of Financial Inclusion in Achieving Sustainable Development Goals in Northern Nigeria – A Focus on Agriculture Finance”, “The Promise of Digital Financial Inclusion – Jobs, Jobs, and More Jobs!” and “Bridging the Gender Gap: Empowering Women, Building Economies”.  At the FIC, The Fintech Development and Advocacy Initiative (FSI), with the support of EFInA, the Omidyar Network, and Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System (NIBBS), will launch the first industry innovation sandbox in Nigeria.  FSI has been conceived to stimulate industry collaboration, drive financial innovation and accelerate Fintech development towards widespread availability and uptake of financial services for a vibrant and inclusive financial ecosystem. The goal is making Nigeria a global leader in financial services innovation for emerging markets by 2050.  Some of the speakers expected at the event are Aisha Ahmad, Deputy Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria,  Kyari Abba Bukar, Former Chairman NESG, Iyin Aboyeji, Chairman, Financial Services Innovators, Joseph Attah, Head Financial Inclusion Secretariat, Central Bank of Nigeria, Bunmi Lawson, MD EDFIN Microfinance Bank, Tayo Aduloju, Chief Operating Officer, Nigerian Economic Summit Group among others.  Interested participants are advised to visit efinafic.org.ng for registration purposes.