As part of measures to revive agriculture and boost rice production in Kwara, the Kwara state government says it has released N5million to farmers to boost rice production. Ahmed Mohammed Katsina, permanent secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, who disclosed this in an exclusive interview with BusinessDay on the state’s plan to improve rice production, posited that Governor Abdulrazaq Abdulrahman was determined to restore the lost glory of the state in agriculture. According to him, Eagle rice a Kwaran brand made the state proud in the 70’s and 80’s but owing to total neglect of agriculture, the production suffered a setback. “The governor gave farmers in Dukunlade N5million cash to encourage them to put more effort into the production of rice in the state,” Katsina said. He revealed that the governor has promised to also support the farmers with improved rice seedlings. On border closure, Katsina says it is a welcome development, saying that the country’s borders have become so porous that illegal commodities are easily finding its way to markets across the country as well as firearms. “To me, the decision on border closure is effective and helpful to Nigerians,” he said. “This is an opportunity for Nigerians to appreciate what they have and then be proud of it as well. What is the essence of asking people to go to the farm and there will be no patronage?” he asked. He admonished Nigerians to remain calm and accept the recent border closure. “What we are presently going through that is just for a short time, the hardship is not going to be forever, we shall rejoice in the end as there is no sweet with ought sweat,” he further said. In his submission, Hameed Ibrahim, director of Veterinary unit in the ministry lauded Buhari as he noted that that, the directive was to checkmate abnormalities and as well attain global standards. “Apart from rustling, diseases are crossing borders through animals. I think the border closure will go far to curtail illegalities in our borders and regulate the movement of goods and services,” he said. SIKIRAT SHEHU, Ilorin