A matter of days to Kogi State gubernatorial election, Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) in collaboration with Search for Common Ground, an international non-profit organisation that promotes peaceful resolution of conflict, has continued to preach peace. Speaking, at the police headquarters on Tuesday, Hakeem Busari, Kogi State police commissioner told Kogi electorates not to be afraid of coming out enmasse to exercise their franchise as police are ready to provide adequate security, saying that with the kind of security arrangement being put in place by the police, there would be no reason to entertain any fear. Busari also assured politicians and their supporters of adequate security, saying that everyone has been given level playing ground for campaign. Read also: As INEC faces another test in Kogi and Bayelsa “We have enough personnel, at least, eight policemen and other security agencies ready to collaborate with us on that day to give necessary assurance to the people. “The inspector-general of police have provided us with additional police to man the polling stations so that everybody will be able to come out and exercise their franchise without any fear of molestation,” Busari said. Also, the state resident Electoral Commissioner, Prof. James Apam assured of the commissions readiness to conduct a clean election that would be acceptable to all. “We are committed to conducting free and clean election. However, this can only be achieved in an atmosphere of peace, so the youth should not allow themselves to be tools for violence during the election and even after that,” Apam said. Earlier, Anne Olurinde, the state chairman of National Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ), had on behalf of Kogi journalists, presented a position letter calling on both the police and INEC to ensure that the elections take place free of violence. Among other demands, Kogi media asked that all officials “be fair to all political parties without any form of bias in the discharge of their responsibilities.” Kogi NUJ equally called for prompt arrest and prosecution of all electoral offenders including political actors and elected officials without immunity.