Presidency on Monday challenged the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party PDP to accept the party’s defeat in the just concluded Bayelsa and Kogi Governorship elections with grace Presidency in a statement signed by Presidential Spokesman , Garba Shehu, reacting to accusation of fabricated results from the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, the PDP. , noted that “ the only fabrication is PDP’s conduct. Presidency statement which is coming against the backdrop of allegations of intimidation and violence attacks against the opposition, especially in the Kogi election, noted that “ it has become standard procedure for the party to challenge any poll that does not return its candidates. Election is good when the PDP wins. The opposite is the case if any party other than the PDP wins” “Democracy is not only about who wins or who loses, but also about the process. In disparaging every unfavourable result, they disgrace themselves by casting aspersion on the entire system. “The February 2019 election saw the loss of five All Progressives Congress, APC governors. The government accepted the results. “In doing so, we realised that we did not win the argument in those contests, and so we didn’t win enough votes. We retired to assess what went wrong: were we responsive enough to the electorate’s needs and priorities? How can we improve on speaking to the nation’s hopes? We got ready and prepared ourselves well for the next contest. The result is a healthier, more rigorous election.” Presidency described the Opposition strategy of attacking the electoral commission, security agencies, government at the centre and the person of President Muhammadu Buhari after each election loss, as “antithetical to healthy democratic norms” “Candidates and parties, especially those that have lost, are not told to examine their campaign tactics and strategies with a view to improving their chances for the next election. The result of not doing this is a loss for the electorate and for the parties concerned. President however, called on APC supporters to show dignity in victory, and for all Nigerians to remain peaceful in the wake of these elections. “We call on PDP to learn to be democrats. We must now come together to build a brighter future for Nigeria. But Chairman of the All Progressive Congress APC, Adams Oshiomhole, the Chairman of the APC Governors Forum, Atiku Bagudu and Jigawa State Governor, Abubakar Badaru, in a related development, commended the roles of former President Goodluck Jonathan in ensuring peaceful election in Bayelsa. Oshiomhole and the APC Governors who were also joined by the Minister of State for Petroleum Recourses, Timipre Sylvia hailed the peaceful conduct that led to the emergence of David Lyon of the APC as the Governor- elect. The APC leaders stated this while briefing State House Correspondents after leading the Governor- elect to meet behind closed doors with President Muhammmadu Buhari, described the election s the “ most peaceful election in Bayelsa since 1999” Oshiomhole disclosed that President Buhari expressed his happiness with the results of the election in Bayelsa, even as he commended the warm reception accorded the Governor- elect by former President Goodluck Jonathan. Oshiomhole noted that the Bayelsa election was a sharp contrast with the Kogi election that witnessed “ pockets of violence “ According to Oshiomhole “ President has charged the Governor- elect to work towards ensuring peace in Bayelsa as well as transform the economic fortunes of the state” The Governor- elect, David Lyon , assured that Security and economic development remain the key agenda his administration is committed to achieving in the state “I promised Bayelsans that we will serve them and not the other way round. “We will respect and ensure regular consultations with the elders of party, in implementing our cardinal objectives for our people” He also expressed his gratitude to President Buhari assuring that there will be serious positive development in the state. “I assure the people of Bayelsa that positive development is key to us and we will ensure that we do not fail Bayelsans Chairman of the election team and Jigawa state Governor, Abubakar Badaru. In his assessment of the election, attributed the success of the All Progressive Congress to the selection of the right candidate for the Governorship election and commended Timipre Sylvia for his leadership quality that culminated in the emergence of David Lyon Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylvia, in his own assessment, noted that outgoing Governor Seriake Dickson made their job very easy by his actions. He noted that the APC victory has given the party not only a foothold in the oil rich region, but has enhanced its national outlook. He however commended former President Jonathan for his fatherly roles.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja