An elder statesman, Lanre Razak has called on the members of the Lagos State House of Assembly to treat as a matter of urgency, the N1.1trillion 2020 proposed Appropriation Bill recently submitted to the state’s legislative chambers by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Read Also: Lagos Assembly to pass 2020 budget in December Razak, who is a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos, reasoned that  giving priority to the quick passage of the budget would prompt the governor to put his acts together with his team in preparation for thorough execution and implementation of all the earmarked projects for the state contained in the proposed document. The Lagos State-born former Public Transportation Commissioner reasoned that quick passage of the budget would prevent unnecessary time-wasting in the implementation, believing that with the performance of Sanwo-Olu in office so far, it is expected that Lagos State would witness huge infrastructure development from 2020 going by the proposed fiscal plan of N115 billion for public infrastructure. “Accelerated passage of the budget would bring to fruition Sanwo-Olu’s plan to accelerate the growth of state’s economy through aggressive investments in critical areas of priorities like physical infrastructure, environment, human capital and security. “Also, it would give nobody an unnecessary excuse for delayed implementation. The proposed budget would help the state in achieving the desired sustainable social investment and scale up private sector-led economic growth for the good of the citizenry. And with the governor’s assurance of transparency and accountability in the implementation of the budget, I have the belief that the state is in for better days ahead,” Razak enthused. While quoting Sanwo-Olu that has said that, “the 2020 Budget will be supported by a Performance Management System that will ensure that, by December 2020, the budget shall achieve an optimal implementation when compared with previous years,” the High Chief, therefore, enjoined the House of Assembly, under the leadership of Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa to do the needful because “Lagos people are eagerly awaiting good news from their end”. The budget, according to a reliable source, has been forwarded to a committee to start prompt work on it to aid quick passage