Vivo, a Chinese smartphone manufacturer that recently decided to play in Nigeria’s competitive mobile phone market has broken the norm in the world of innovation with the launch of the first of its kind dual pop up camera and AI quad camera smartphone –the Vivo V17 pro. Considering that camera has become very vital in the day to day activities of every individual in this generation, the OEM decided to showcase its strong consumer-centric innovation approach by releasing the new V17Pro, focusing on brilliant camera systems as its first flagship device launched in the Nigerian market. Speaking at the launch of the launch of the device in Lagos recently, Felix Lu, the country manager, Vivo said; “V17 Pro is a masterpiece that we are extremely proud of, as it reinforces our position as a pioneer in bringing best-in-class mobile experiences to the Nigerian market.” The V17 Pro comes with 6 high-end cameras positioned in the front and rear of the device. The 32MP dual pop-up camera and a complimentary 8MP wide-angle front cameras ensure every detail is captured clearly. The 8MP super wide-angle selfie is able to capture wide angles up to 105-degrees, allowing perfect group shots. Similarly, with the help of its 48MP main camera, 8MP wide-angle camera, 2MP Bokeh camera and an additional 2MP macro camera, the device’s rear cameras are just perfect for that spot-on picture and also capturing landscape shots even further. The V17 Pro smartphone also features two impressive beautifying features and is supported by qualcomm snapdragon 675 AIE processor with 8GB RAM + 128GB ROM that ensures performance for applications and system can be operated smoothly at any time. Also speaking in response to questions from journalists, Tayo Odunowo, marketing manager, Vivo, said the company was ready to bring something entirely different and valuable to compete in the Nigerian market. “We brought a top range device with 4100mAh battery and dual-engine fast charging technology which brings higher durability and faster charging to address our unique power challenges in this part of the world,” Odunowo said. V17 Pro is also designed for gamers. It comes with optimized game mode that brings out a smooth new gaming experience. The multi-turbo acceleration technology actively tunes the operating system to ensure users can enjoy a more exhilarating game performance.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson