If you were at Filmhouse Cinema Lekki in Lagos for the premiere of Living In Bondage: Breaking Free, you will appreciate the great cast and sheer creativity employed by the director in telling the epic story.  The movie is the sequel to Living In Bondage; Nollywood’s first and most iconic blockbuster movie released in 1992. There was a huge turnout of Nollywood stars, Afro-beat heavyweights and business moguls at the event, but the intrigue was their attempts at interpreting the theme of the premiere, ‘Demons In Diamonds’, which witnessed a show of bling, sequins and diamonds at Filmhouse Lekki. Olu Okeowoin, a billionaire, almost stole the show with a seeming open act of the premiere when he stepped out on the red carpet in classic black and shimmery white and gold. It was all glamour, which continued with the enthralling movie later. The guests were truly excited, describing the premiere as an experience, not just a movie outing. Describing the experience, Obi Asika, special guest at the premiere, said: “Living In Bondage: Breaking Free is pure and unadulterated class. From the magnificent guests to the jaw-dropping red carpet, I consider it as Nollywood’s best ever.  Thank you, Play Networks, for a movie of sheer creative, and Charles Okpaleke for the vision.  You sure took it there.” Also, Kunle Afolayan joined in commending Ramsey Nouah for a world class directorial debut.  “I would hate to compete with Living In Bondage in 2019.  This is all-round creative genius”, he said. Uche Jumbo, Chioma Akpotah, Niyi Akinmolayan, Funlola Aofiyebi and other Nollywood greats added glowing tributes to a movie widely adjudged as possibly Nollywood’s greatest ever. The movie is created by Play Network Africa in conjunction with Native Filmworks and co-produced by Steve Gukas, Dotun Olakurin and Charles Okpaleke.  However, it is a directorial debut of Ramsey Nouah. It is of note that  in the 25 years since Living In Bondage heralded the local film industry, Nollywood has gone on to birth an industry of world-class indigenous film actors, world-acclaimed movie directors, producers, cameramen, editors,  as well as, photographers, soundtrack artistes, special effects experts, movie financiers and diverse other talents.  Today, Nollywood has created a crop of top talent many of whom have gone on to international acclaim including Genevieve Nnaji, Stephanie Linus, among others. Speaking on the movie, Charles Okpaleke, the executive producer, explained that “Living In Bondage is the single most compelling; most consequential movie franchise in the history of the Nigerian film industry.  It is the movie which in 1992 birthed the Nigerian movie industry that is today universally known as Nollywood; an industry that is now the world’s second largest, most prolific film industry.” In the same vein, Steve Gukas, the movie producer, noted that Living in Bondage spurned an industry that today entertains hundreds of millions in far flung locations across the world.  “Nollywood is celebrated in Brazil, The Netherlands, South Africa, and everywhere.  It is an industry that has brought joy and employment to millions of Nigerians here at home and in the diaspora.  There is no more compelling story than the story of Living in Bondage: Breaking Free”, Gukas said. Excited at his directorial debut, Ramsey Tokunbo Nouah, said, “I could not have asked for a bigger platform on which to make my directorial debut. From the power of this story, the intensity of the script, the cache of the cast and the quality of my technical support, there is no story as fascinating as Living In Bondage: Breaking Free.  It is truly the movie maker’s dream project – and I should know to work on both sides of the camera.  I cannot wait to pack cinema seats with this truly movie magical work.” Living in Bondage: Breaking Free is the story of Nnamdi, Andy Okeke’s mysterious son, and his vaunting quest for the big life, one that he would do whatever it took to realize.  Nnamdi’s untamed quest for the quick buck, fast car, easy living, inevitably took him on a perilous journey that is better told by the cast of stellar performers, classic and current, including Kenneth Okonkwo, Kanayo O. Kanayo, Enyinna Nwigwe, Nancy Isime, and Munachi Abii. Written by Nicole Asinugo and C.J. Obasi, Living in Bondage: Breaking Free has an original score produced by Larry Gaaga, which features top Afrobeat artistes. The movie filming started in June 2018, with locations in Lagos, Owerri, Durban, South Africa, and beyond. Living in Bondage: Breaking Free was released nationwide on November 8, 2019.