The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has hailed Danjuma Goje’s decision to withdraw from the 9th Senate Presidency contest in support of the Party’s endorsed candidate, Ahmad Lawan. The withdrawal of Goje from the race has cleared the way for Lawan to emerge Senate President when the 9th Assembly will be inaugurated next Tuesday as the only aspirant left, Ali Ndume is said not have the support to threaten chances of the party’s anointed candidate. Lanre Issa Onilu, APC National Publicity Secretary in a statement on Thursday night commended the fatherly role played by President Muhammadu Buhari in ensuring compliance with party decisions and directives. According to APC Spokesperson, “Goje has demonstrated himself as a reliable, committed party leader, good role model and elder statesman. We believe that Goje’s selfless actions typify APC’s progressive ideals and should be emulated by all party members to ensure unity, strength and supremacy of our great party. There is no doubt that the majority APC caucus is going into the incoming 9thNational Assembly as a united house. “On the sponsored reports against Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, the Party’s candidate for the Speakership position, 9th House of Representatives, that he was ‘convicted’ by a Court in the United States of America, we urge Nigerians to ignore the phantom and infantile allegations. “The allegations have become a reoccurring fabrication. Nigerians will recall that the same baseless allegation were made against Gbajabiamila in the leadup to the 8th National Assembly speakership race and came to naught. It needs restating that Gbajabiamila has never been convicted for any crime in Nigeria and abroad. “We urge Gbajabiamila and his vibrant campaign team to remain focused on their extensive countywide consultation and engagements which has been well-received and endorsed across party lines. “Ahead of the June 11 inauguration of the 9th National Assembly, we urge all APC federal lawmakers to rally around the candidatures of Senator Ahmad Lawan, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and all our candidates for the respective principal positions”.  James Kwen, Abuja