Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State has constituted an 8-man committee to ascertain the financial transactions of the State under the leadership of the immediate past Governor, Rochas Okorocha (May 2011- 2019). Abraham Nwankwo, a former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), an administrator and bureaucrat will head the committee, while Nick Oparadundu, a former local government chairman during the days of former governor of the state, Achike Udenwa is the secretary  of the probing committee. Other members include Charles Onwunali, Kelechi Omeni-Nzewuihe, Chima Aliliele, Charles Nwogu,  Udeze Ibezirim (Mrs) and Ify Maureen Okafor (Mrs). According to a statement which was signed by Uche Onyeagocha, secretary to the Government of Imo State (SSG), the committee would ascertain and document the locations of and balances on all bank accounts operated by Imo State government, its ministries, department and agencies (MDA’s) from 2011 to May 29, 2019. The committee would also review all the financial transactions and where necessary a forensic audit, with a view to ascertaining sources of funds and the applications of same. The committee would further review such disbursements/applications of state resources in order to ascertain the propriety of charges leveled on accounts, interest payment on loans and deposits where applicable; authorisation etc and the operations of the Imo State Board of Internal Revenue (BIR). Other references include conducting government/financial reviews of key agencies of government with a view to documenting all revenues generated or subventions/allocations between 2011 and 2019. The committee being chaired by Nwankwo would further review the propriety of applications/disbursements of state resources between 2011 and 2019 and recommend measures that would strengthen internal controls and enhance the performance of those key agencies of government of Imo State. Similarly, Governor Emeka Ihedioha has further approved the constitution of a committee to review appointments, recruitments, etc in line with the resolutions of the Imo State House of Assembly and this committee is headed by Okey Anyanwu. This committee would evaluate the recent appointments of Head of Service, permanent secretaries, Solicitor-General, accountants and heads of extra-ministerial departments. It is also charged with the responsibility to look into all staff recruitments, promotions, transfers and secondment of officers without following due process from 2015 to May 29, 2019 and applying the public service rules and regulations.  SABY ELEMBA, OWERRI