Medical and Dental Consultants Association of Nigeria (MDCAN), Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University Teaching Hospital (COOUTH), Amaku, Awka chapter on Monday commenced an indefinite strike. The strike action is coming seven weeks into an indefinite strike embarked upon by Association of Resident Doctors (ARD) of the same institution. The consultants in a statement entitled “Notice of Resumption on an Indefinite Strike,” said the decision was reached at their emergency meeting held at the Histopathology Auditorium Complex, COOUTH, June 21. The statement was signed by Chukwudi Okani and Obiora Ejiofor, the chairman and secretary, respectively. It would be recalled that MDCAN, COOUTH had on May 31 issued a 21-day notice of the strike and embarked warning strike on June 3. The Consultants cited non-implementation of Consolidated Medical Salary Scale and absence of Condition of Service, which had resulted in stagnation of members as major reasons for their action. They condemned what they called government’s insensitivity to their demand and vowed not to be part of any discussion that would not address their demands. “After due notices to government and seven-day warning strike to alert them on the seriousness of our demands, it seems that government has not taken us seriously. “Consequently, arising from our Emergency Meeting which took place at the our members resolved as follows, that all the Medical Doctors with COOUTH, Amaku – Awka can no longer condone the situation. “The least qualified Medical Doctors (House Officers) in Federal Institutions and other state owned teaching hospitals in Nigeria earn better than the most qualified Medical Doctors (Consultants/ Professors) in the employ of COOUTH”. “We can no longer tolerate the present status quo whereby the entire workers are stagnated without any form of promotion since the inception of the Teaching Hospital in 2012 for the reasons best known to the Hospital Management”. “MDCAN COOUTH, strongly condemns the seeming unresponsiveness of the Government at creating the enabling nidus for amicable resolution of the impasse which is having its heavy effect on our patients. “That we shall immediately proceed on indefinite strike action starting from 8am, June 24,”they stated”. The Consultants called on Anambra government to urgently institute reliable and convincing measures that will ensure Implementation and payment of 100 percent CONMESS including arrears to all Doctors with COOUTH. They also demanded the release and implementation of the Conditions of Service at COOUTH while appealing to the people of Anambra to see reason with their action. “We sincerely appeal to well Anambra people to appeal to the government to reduce the suffering our patients are undergoing owing to the seeming reluctance of government at finding a lasting solution to the industrial disharmony,” they said.