The Assembly Hub, since its launch in November 2016,  has helped to bridge  employment  gap in Nigeria’s creative community.  With efforts channeled towards filling industry gaps of access and relevant resources, The Assembly continues to build a community for fashion creatives, entrepreneurs and professionals to thrive in.  Birthed to bridge the gaps with the lack of access and collaborative  opportunities in the industry, The Assembly delivers training, mentoring, networking and consulting, providing creative professionals with not only the necessary resources they need to grow, but also much-needed experiences to bond and become.  Following its launch, The Assembly introduced “A-Careers” , a talent-matching platform devoted to helping the creative community find the right career opportunities by creating a hiring ecosystem that promotes interpersonal connections and alleviates barriers to recruitment. “We meet hundreds of talented and ambitious creatives who are looking for opportunities to build on their talent and skills, but are unable to find the right career or business opportunities. It was a natural step for us to connect our community to our industry network” shares Founder, Yoanna ‘pepper’ Chikezie, “we also want to bridge the talent gap within the sector
and support companies and SMEs find the right talent.”  While it may be relatively new to the talent-matching scene, A-Careers already powers a talent pipeline by partnering with companies, start-ups and SMEs to connect young creatives with real-world pre-professional experiences on a freelance, project-based, part-time, and full-time basis.  Beyond connecting both parties, A-Careers enables hiring managers and talent acquisition professionals to rapidly identify and tap from a pool of promising talent which includes designers, pattern makers, copywriters, technologists, buyers and content creators among others. For brands in the creative and fashion industry, A-Careers presents a new opportunity to address the most time-intensive and costly aspects of the recruitment and hiring processes. In an industry that is still undergoing major developments, A-Careers is well-positioned to facilitate the rise of functional recruitment. The innovative platform operates on a seek talent, find opportunity basis which simply means that brands enjoy 3rd party recruitment (job vacancy listings via website, targeted newsletters and digital media) as well as 3rd party sourcing and pre-screening services which simply translates to a hassle-free hiring process for brands. “We really like the multi-stage approach of screening and shortlisting candidates before potential candidates are sent to us. We have had some notable candidates that have come through A-Careers platform and have risen to be successful with us. A good example is Beauty Abu who has risen to become area manager of the Swatch stores in Abuja and has now relocated to Lagos to continue with the brand.” Brand Manager, TM Lewin & Swatch Ltd. West Africa, Timilehin Tikolo. For talents, A-Careers provides them training and development programs as well as insider access to advance their understanding of creative
industry practices and skill sets. “My internship with David Tlale at the GTBank Fashion Weekend was enlightening and worthwhile as I was able to learn the fundamentals in showcasing a fashion collection successfully.” says Arinze Orizu, intern for David Tlale (GTB Fashion Weekend) “I found the exposure interesting and enlightening especially with the challenges of human resources and management. I have learnt a bit about quickbooks and inventory management, customer service and relationships.” adds Dickson Fabiawari, intern at David Wej. To find an industry career opportunity, sign up to the A-CAREERS NEWSLETTER
Companies seeking creative talent to hire, please send an email to work @theassemblyhub.com with your vacancy information. Follow The Assembly on Instagram: @assemblyofficial | Twitter: TheAssembly
TheAssemblyHub | Facebook: TheAssemblyHub