Senate president, Ahmed Lawan on Friday said the National Assembly under his leadership will now dedicate a definite time frame to consideration and passage of appropriation bills sent by the executive. Lawan who was fielding questions from State House Correspondents after observing his Juma’at prayers with President Muhammmadu Buhari at the presidential Villa, said the National Assembly will work for Nigerians optimally and patriotically. “We also hope to have a National Assembly that will work with the executive arm of government in a partnership and synergy to ensure that we perform our functions as a government because we are a single unit. “I also foresee a National Assembly that will insists that whoever has a responsibility in government performs that responsibility, because it takes all of us to work together to ensure that no part or nobody is left behind. If there is anyone that is deficient it would cost the system.” Lawan who stated that the outgoing eight Legislature did not perform to its full potentials, assured that they are “going to work very hard, we would like to catch up the lost grounds over the last four years. “I am sure we did not perform to our capacity as a National Assembly in the last National Assembly. This time around we want to perform to full capacity and by the grace of God Nigerians will see a positive difference in terms of delivery of service to our country men and women. On the timely passage of budget bill, the Senate president it as a “crucial thing that worries everyone, every Nigerian wants to see the National Assembly passes the budget in good time and what we have in mind we’ve campaigned with that and it’s something both of us in the National Assembly have bought into – that we’ll pass the budget within three months by the grace of God. “But I want to say here that it takes two sides of government to pass the budget in good time and I am sure that the executive side of the government would like to present the budget before the National Assembly in good time – in September or early October and by the grace of God we in the National Assembly will ensure that we carry out the budget defence and do the remaining parts of the processes and before we leave for Christmas break, the budget would have been passed and Mr President would have have the budget before him to signed and assent. “This requires sacrifice in the National Assembly and the executive side of the government that we create a window for budget defence only, a dedicated period and timeframe- say a month of which only budget defence would be carried out in the National Assembly. “It is our desire in the National Assembly that every minister, every chief executive officer of every agency comes to the National Assembly and defense the budget of his agency or her agency before going out of the country. That window is going to be available within the one month but that is the only window that is going to be available. “After that for example, every minister or head of agency who did not come to defend the budget of that institution, the National Assembly would go ahead to work on such a budget appropriately. Lawan who declared that no one would take pleasure in wasting the time of this administration, said the law makers were in a hurry to help the President fulfill his campaign promises to Nigerians “ We are in a hurry, we are thirsty to perform, we want to support Mr President, we want to see Mr President achieve those legacies dreams that he has and we are going to work full course and full time to ensure that we give him the maximum support that he requires”