Barely 24 hours to proclamation of the 9th National Assembly, the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC has adopted Ovie Omo-Agege (APC, Delta) for the position of Deputy Senate President and Ahmed Wase (APC, Plateau for Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives. APC had earlier adopted Ahmed Lawan from Yobe State for Senate President and Femi Gbajabiamila from Lagos for the Speaker of the House Representatives. Lanre Issa -Onilu, APC National Publicity announced who the latest endorsement at the end of the emergency meeting of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) said the decision was taken after wide consultations with President Muhammadu Buhari, party stakeholders, including APC governors. The NWC directed other party members who have indicated interest in these positions to support the party’s choice. Consequently, Kabiru Gaya from Kano, Orji Kalu from Abia and Francis Alimikhena from Edo who are contesting for the position of Deputy Senate President would have to withdraw in compliance with the party’s directives. Issa -Onilu in statement made available to journalists Monday in Abuja said, “the party formally adopts Senator Ovie Omo-Agege for the positions of Deputy Senate President and Hon. Muhammed Idris Wase as Deputy Speaker. This is sequel to wide consultations with President Muhammadu Buhari, party stakeholders, including APC governors. “You would recall that the party had earlier announced the duo of Senator Ahmed Lawan and Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila as the party’s candidates for the positions of Senate President and Speaker of House Representatives respectively. “All elected APC members of the Senate and House of Representatives are hereby directed to fully mobilise as a united force behind the party’s choice. “Members who have earlier signified interests in these positions are urged to support the party’s decisions as loyal and committed members of APC by working with other members to ensure the emergence of the adopted candidates”.  James Kwen, Abuja