They was tension in Jalingo local government area of Taraba state monday evening, following another attack by  gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen on Janibanbu village forcing residents of the two metropolitan local  governments of Jalingo and some part of Ardo Kola to flee for their lives as tension mounts The gunmen who invaded the village located about 1 kilometer South West of Jalingo the state capital shoot sporadically scaring residents of  Jalingo and Ardo Kola in the metropolis to scamper for safety. The gunshots which were followed by mass of smoke lasted for about 25 minutes before soldiers and other security agencies engaged the attackers and repel them. Rev. Fr. Cyriacus Kamai the Parish Priest of St. John the Baptist Janibanbu told our correspondent that the attackers in their numbers riding on motorcycles attacked the village burn down everything in the area. “Though the people have fled the area, the attackers burn down the whole village before the arrival of security agencies. “Their target is to attack Kona village as a followup to what happened yesterday,” he said. The state Chairman of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria,  Alh. Sahabi Tukur decline comment on the attack,  but a member of the association who pleaded anonymity said the attack was a reprisal to the killing of 40 cows and a Fulani herder in the area about two weeks ago. Police Public Relations Officer in the state,  DSP David Misal who confirmed the attack said there was attempt by bandits to attack Nukkai area of Jalingo but men of the command and other sister security agencies repelled the attack, forcing the attackers to retreat. Misal who said details about the attack were still sketchy,  however said security agencies were on top of the situation. Meanwhile the Taraba state government  has imposed a fourteen hour curfew on Jalingo,  the state capital following  renewed attacks on some communities in Kona and ATC. A statement late Monday night by the Senior Special Assistant to Governor Ishaku on Media and Publicity, Bala Dan Abu said the curfew will remain in force till further notice. The Curfew was imposed less than three hours the state government refuted reports on speculations that it had imposed curfew on Jalingo. The statement in part reads,  “In view of fresh outbreak of crisis in some communities in Kona and ATC areas near Jalingo today, Monday June 17,  2019, the Taraba State government has decided to impose a curfew on Jalingo and all the affected communities with immediate effect”. “The curfew is from 4pm to 6am daily. It remains in force until further notice. “Security agencies in the state have been directed to enforce the curfew strictly to ensure strict compliance and quick return of peace to the affected communities.”  Nathaniel Gbaoron, Jalingo