Global cybersecurity company, Kaspersky Lab becomes Kaspersky, with a mission focused on “Building a safer world.” For more than two decades, Kaspersky Lab has been offering the best security solutions to customers in pursuit of its mission to save the world. As the world has become more digitised and globalised, the company has moved beyond the anti-virus laboratory to become a technology leader with an advanced and comprehensive portfolio of security solutions and services, including innovative products and technologies, cloud services and world-leading threat intelligence. The rebranding reflects that transformation. The company name becomes simply ‘Kaspersky’, and the new mission is ‘building a safer world’, emphasises our commitment to a trusted and transparent future where everyone has the endless opportunities technology brings, because we protect it. The new branding reflects the evolution of the business focus from “cybersecurity” towards the wider concept of “cyber-immunity”. We live in a world where technology connects us across platforms and borders like never before. We are at a cross section where humans and technology are collaborating to improve our lives.
Cybersecurity in today’s world is consequently about more than just protecting devices, but developing an ecosystem where everything connected is protected. Kaspersky’s rebranding marks the company’s commitment to this evolution, and to leading the development of higher industry standards for the future. It also marks the company’s support for the creation of connected systems that are secure by design and no longer where security is only an optional add-on layer at the end. According to Eugene Kaspersky, CEO of the company, he said: “Since we founded our company more than 22 years ago we’ve seen both the cyberthreat landscape and our industry evolve and change beyond recognition, while witnessing the growing role of technology in our lives both at work and at home. Today the world has new needs, and our rebranding reflects our vision to meet those needs not just for today, but well into the future. Building upon our successful track record in protecting the world from cyberthreats, we’ll also help build a safer world that’s immune to cyber threats. A world where everyone is able to freely enjoy the many benefits that technology has to offer.” As part of the rebrand, the company have also updated their visual identity to reflect the core values and the essence of what Kaspersky stands for as an organisation. The new logo is created from geometric and mathematically exact letter forms, representing the top-class software engineering expertise that the company originated from and to which it remains committed. In line with the name change, they have also dropped the word ‘Lab’. According to Andrew Winton, Vice President, Marketing at Kaspersky “The basis for our existing logo was developed in 1997 and many things have changed since then. Previously, we used letters from the Greek alphabet that are just not relevant anymore due to the changes in the breadth and depth of our communications – we need to look to the future and embrace the digital world. It seemed logical to remove the Lab from our name when we were developing the new visual identity – as we wanted to simplify our branding in a way that helps to deliver our newly inspired philosophy and mission, whilst still highlighting our company’s wide range of technologies.”  Jonathan Aderoju