Bankole Thomas Foundation, BTF, has donated 900 uniforms to three schools in Lagos, as the number of out of schoolchildren increased from 10.5 million to 13.2 million, the highest in the world.  The United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund, UNICEF, had disclosed this in its recent report, adding that the situation calls for concern.  Consequently, BTF, an offshoot of the popular Bankole Thomas, a men’s fashion brand has given away 900 uniforms to young pupils of Anthony Model School, Kosofe, St John Primary School, Arolaya, Lagos Island and Unity Primary School, AmuwoOdofin on the 6th, 8th and 10th May 2019.  In a statement sent to the media, BTF stated that one of the focuses of the foundation was to improve children’s self-esteem, emotional wellbeing and aid to learning.  It stated: “In a bid for sustainable development, the Bankole Thomas Foundation is not just enhancing quality education but empowering low income tailors through the production process thereby promoting decent work and economic growth.  “I have been talking about giving out school uniforms to those that are in need. This vision has been settled in my mind for a while, whenever I drive around and see young schoolchildren in uniforms that is not satisfactory, it beats me down emotionally and then I realised that it is time to do something about it. “The Bankole Thomas Foundation is an offshoot of the Bankole Thomas and the mission is to provide basic clothing for children who attend government owned primary schools in Africa but we started with Lagos Nigeria, as we all know ‘charity begins at home’. “The inspiration behind the creation of BTF is because being the Creative Director of the Bankole Thomas, I grew up in a very challenging environment; my primary school uniforms were nothing to speak home about, it wasn’t up to standard, it dampened my self-esteem, I was not looking acceptable and it affected my educational performance. During my stay in primary school, I was promoted twice on trial simply because I could not concentrate on my studies. You will be surprised that things like this affect young children. For me it is a childhood memory that I cannot forget.” It stated: “When I got to the university my self-esteem got better, I did well and graduated as a Chartered Accountant at the Lagos state University (LASU). Seeing primary school students in uniforms that are tattered hurts me so much because I can relate to the situation, I have been there and I know how they feel. “It gladdens my heart to know that I can do something about it, this led to the creation of The Bankole Thomas Foundation and we are on a mission to put smiles on the faces of children by providing them with school uniforms. According to the report from UNICEF, in Nigeria over 10.5m children are not in school even though primary education is officially free and compulsory. “The education system in Nigeria has so many challenges, above all, we lack the maintenance of educational standard, and maintenance is very important. I hope that our government can treat this as urgent. “At The Bankole Thomas Foundation, we have focused on one of the challenges, which is the provision of school uniforms to improve the children’s self-esteem, emotional wellbeing and to aid learning. We believe that in the nearest future the steps that we have taken will bring the change that we all seek. “In a nut shell, we set to improve the education system right from the foundation within students in the state by providing uniforms (basic clothing); to put smiles on faces of young children in the society because at BTC AND BTF we believe looking good equates feeling good; to provide jobs and empowerment for low-level tailors who will be involved in the production of the uniforms; and to support and encourage parents and guardians who earn below standard but understand the importance of education for their children. “In the next two years, I see BTF (Bankole Thomas Foundation) as an NGO that would have provided over 35,000 school uniforms to primary children that cannot afford it, an organization whose board of directors will reflect integrity, supported by an efficient group of volunteers, an NGO that will partner with the government of Nigeria to solve the basic and standard educational problems that exist in our country. Afterwards, we will take it global. “The major factor that led to a successful outreach is the amazing team. I had a full-blown support of a dedicated team who are willing to go the extra mile. As the popular saying goes, ‘team work makes the dream work’, I thank everyone who came on board.” 