Abdulmumini Abiola, son of acclaimed winner of the June 12, 1993 election on Wednesday said that his father, MKO Abiola died a happy man having fought for the entrenchment of democracy in Nigeria. Abdulmumini, who spoke at an event organised to mark Democracy Day in Ogun State, his father’s home country, said, “With the declaration of June 12 as Democracy Day, my father’s vision has been fulfilled, even after death. It is important we understand that Nigeria belongs to all of us or none of us at all. BusinessDay reports that the event started with the State Deputy Governor, Noimot Salako-Oyedele leading politicians, government officials and a cross section of civil societies to Abiola’s Oja Agbo, Oke Iddo, Gbagura, Abeokuta family house in the morning. Speaking on behalf of the family, Abdulmumini commended the Federal Government for at last recognising June 12 as Democracy Day, insisting that the decision would entrench the country’s democracy. He urged the Federal Government to look into his father’s manifestoes, especially the areas of poverty alleviation and appealed that the Federal Government must take urgent steps to lessen the poverty level in the country. His words, “Today is a historic day. The actualisation of the long battle and campaigning for justification for June 12 as Democracy Day has finally come to fruition. The event of June 12 marked the freest and fairest elections held in Nigeria at the time”. “The decision of General Ibrahim Babaginda to annul the election was a surprise to both my family and the Nigerian people in general because my dad and the General (Babaginda) were close friends.” “But I was so proud that Chief MKO Abiola was able to stand for what he believed to be true. It is important we do this when you find that justice is supposed to be done, especially in a country like Nigeria where so many people are suffering. We need to be just with one another.” “It is a day of reflection. I do not intend to celebrate this day. I intend to reflect on where we are as a nation, where we intend to go and where my children will be.” Governor Dapo Abiodun, represented by deputy governor, pledged that his administration would incorporate the visions of Abiola into his government, urging political leaders to make the sacrifice of Abiola count and continue to enthrone good governance for the benefit of the people. According to him, “Abiola did not only fight for the entrenchment of democracy in Nigeria but “died fighting for the people. “It was creating an equitable society and enlarging opportunities for individual and societal development that Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola stood and died for. We vow to bring this vision to fruition in Ogun State,” “I charge all our political actors not to lose sight of the significance of June 12, 1993. So much labour and struggles have been invested in order to ensure the attainment and the survival of democracy we now enjoy.”  Razaq Ayinla