Digital transformation has been a major focus for businesses and government across Nigeria, like the rest of Africa, and Dell Technologies at a recent event, reinforced its commitment to advancing Nigeria’s ICT agenda. The Dell Technologies Forum 2019 that was held in Lagos, brought together business leaders and industry experts to share their insights and expertise on the latest digital transformation strategies in the country. The forum is the first of its kind in the country and aims to provide a blueprint for digital success and insight into how transformation initiatives can positively impact business results and functions, according to Dell in a statement. It focused on areas such as IT Transformation that highlighted modernizing the underlying technology infrastructure, operations, and delivery of services. This enables speed, efficiency, scale, and cost-effectiveness—automating manual tasks and streamlining operations to free up resources and fuel Digital Future initiatives. The unique capabilities developed by IT will help power the innovation required for an organization’s Digital Future. “The information and communications technology (ICT) sector is at the center of Nigeria’s development strategy and continues to play a key role in driving economic growth,” said Habib Mahakian, vice president of Dell Technologies, Emerging Africa. According to him, in an era of intense business change and rapid technology shifts, companies today need to lay the foundations for their digital future. He also emphasized the importance for organizations to ensure that their IT infrastructure enables them to compete in a hyper-digital world. This is because digital transformation is shifting the paradigms of how an organization operates, the way IT is consumed and the value derived from the products and services offered. “At Dell Technologies, we aim to simplify this journey for our customers with our comprehensive portfolio of solutions and services and Dell Technologies Forum is the platforms that showcases our breakthrough solutions portfolio with the aim of advancing an organization’s digital roadmap,” he said. At the Dell Forum, it was also highlighted as noted in a statement, workforce transformation, which looks at simplifying the way we work. The future of work is one where there is flexibility to work anytime and anywhere. In response to the growing demands of companies to have a seamless experience for their employees, and to allow IT teams to focus on matters requiring their expertise, Dell Technologies introduced Unified Workspace. On Security, Dell Technologies says it partners with organizations to adopt a new mindset to managing security and risk.  Products within the Dell’s security portfolio include its trusted devices, data and infrastructure along with VMware NSX, SecureWorks Red Cloak Threat Detection & Response that brings software as a service to cybersecurity. Looking ahead, Dell Technologies says it is committed to working closely with its customers and partners in Nigeria as they embark on their digital transformation strategies. There are several trends that are driving the requirements for organizations and shaping their IT strategies over the next 3-5 years, with innovation in 5G, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning, cloud and blockchain throttling full steam ahead.  CALEB OJEWALE