Former Head of Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB), Angus Ozoka has said that accident investigation is critical to the overall safety in flight operations because the industry depend on the recommendations made by the agency to prevent future accidents. Ozoka who hosted the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) team that audited the Nigerian aviation industry as pioneer Commissioner/CEO of the Bureau in 2007, said that accident investigation is a painstaking work, which procedure and processes are not exposed to media propaganda. Ozoka was reacting to the publications in the media titled, “Air Peace Concealed Major Aircraft Incidents from Us – AIB,” which was a press release by the Nigerian Accident Investigation Bureau to the world, notifying the public that the airline did not report an incident to the Bureau but only reported to the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) and noted that such publication was unprecedented. “After carefully reading the article and as a concerned Nigerian, I have the following observations and comments on the matter. The damage assessment by AIB did not reveal that an accident or serious incident occurred as hard landing does not equate to an accident or serious incident. “According to AIB, the nature of the damage suggests a high probability of an accident but it is difficult to see how such a conclusion can be reached when a thorough investigation was not carried out. Accident investigation is a pain-staking research work, which follows a whole process involving the gathering and analysis of information, the drawing of conclusions after determination of cause(s), and making safety recommendations,” he said. Ozoka who also was former Rector of the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Zaria noted that after the incident, the operating aircraft (B737-300 with registration 5N-BUK) was kept on ground awaiting hard landing inspection. “The aircraft was not put back into operation and it is not operating at the moment and so; it is difficult to see what wrong Air Peace has committed. If, according to the airline, a Mandatory Occurrence Report (MOR) was filed with the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority in writing on May 17, 2019 after a notification was made on May 16, 2019 i.e. within two days of the incidents; the NCAA should confirm whether this assertion is true, and if so confirmed, Air Peace has done no wrong,” he explained. On the reference made by AIB in its statement over an earlier incident involving the aircraft of the airline, he said, “With regard to Air Peace B737-300 with registration 5N-BUO, a malfunctioning Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) does not equate to an accident or serious incident and does not ‘make’ an accident. Its primary purpose is to complement i.e. facilitate investigation, and so one is at a loss to see what “sin” the airline has committed. “The assertion that Air Peace lacks full understanding of AIB’s statutory mandates, functions and procedures does not derive from any investigation with recommendations and such a conclusion can therefore not be reached,” Ozoka stated. The former Rector also observed that so far, no accidents or serious incidents were shown to have occurred in the publication by AIB. “If, by chance, Air Peace, which is unarguably the leading airline in Nigeria lacks full understanding of AIB’s mandates etc, then it will be very safe to conclude that other airlines in the country equally lack this ‘full understanding.’ “The AIB should therefore take appropriate action to brief and educate all airlines in the country on such requirements for the wellbeing of the sector as AIB plays a critical role in aviation safety. Nothing stops the Bureau from charging a fee for their services as it is within their purview to do so,” he said. Detailing on ICAO Annex 13, which deals with accident investigation, Ozoka said, “Aircraft Accident and Incident Investigation” does not provide for the type of Press Release made by AIB and published by the media in which an airline is blamed and castigated even when no accident occurred and no investigation carried out to reveal cause(s) and recommend measures to prevent re-occurrence. He added that press releases are targeted at critical stakeholders such as regulators, manufacturers et al for timely measures to enhance safety. “It is possible that the AIB has other reasons for the allegation of wrong doing against Air Peace but this has not been demonstrated and unfortunately, the whole world has read the publication. In my very candid opinion, and deriving from the information by AIB in the publication, neither ICAO nor NCAA rules and regulations were breached by Air Peace and it is not clear which aspects of AIB’s mandate and procedures, which should be in alignment with ICAO Annex 13 were breached. “Most of the issues in the publication are under the purview of the NCAA and it is believed that they are alive to their responsibilities, as the blame did not originate from them. Certainly, NCAA will not make such press releases because the Agency understands the industry and does not need to shout to lead. It is not the leadership style of its Director-General. “We should be mindful of what we publish for the whole world to see so as not to be looked down upon and so that the competence of our professionals is not in doubt. In this way, no bias will be imputed. That publication is not in consonance with ICAO Annex 13 and certainly, not in the best interest of Nigeria. This type of press release is unknown to aviation,” Ozoka said. He also remarked that according to ICAO Annexe 13, the sole objective of the investigation of an accident or incident shall be the prevention of accident and incidents. It is not the purpose of this activity to apportion blame or liability.