Disturbed by the emergence of Abubakar Suleiman (APC, Ningi) who is loyal to Governor Bala Mohammed as the Speaker of the Bauchi State House of Assembly, the All Progressives Congress, (APC) has ran to President Muhammadu Buhari and the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu for help. There was drama last Thursday when 11 out of the 31 members of the Bauchi State House of Assembly believed to be loyal to the governor elected on the platform of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) were sworn-in and they elected Suleiman as the Speaker. Also, 18 members loyal to the APC made attempt on the House mace as Suleiman’s group tried to exit the Assembly complex but they came short of getting the mace after security agents present at the Assembly intervened. However, the immediate past Speaker, Shehu Damina from Darrazo constituency who was also contesting for Speakership of the House, organised his group of 18 members and held a parallel inauguration and was ‘sworn in’ as Speaker. Adams Oshiomhole, APC national chairman at a meeting with the Damina group and other party chieftains from Bauchi in Abuja said, he has briefed the President on the development. Oshiomhole also disclosed that the APC National Working Committee (NWC) has met with the Inspector-General of Police after deliberating on the issues and prevailed on him to ensure that police do not provide security for an illegal act. “The people of Bauchi in their wisdom have chosen to entrust the leadership of the Bauchi State House of Assembly in the hands of the APC by voting for 21 of you while they allow PDP only 10. That is that APC should control the legislature. “There is nothing anybody can do in a democracy to change the fact. The earlier the Governor of Bauchi comes to terms with this reality the better for him and for everyone. But I want to assure you that we are a party that believes in the rule of law”, he noted. The APC National Chairman reminded Governor Mohammed that, if it was about the use of might, the ruling party can as well use the police to occupy the Government House and put anybody of its choice to govern Bauchi. Earlier, Damina, the factional Speaker of the Bauchi State House of Assembly narrated how the inauguration was postponed from June 17 to Thursday June 20 to pave way for the manipulation of the process by the PDP-led state government and appealed to APC National leadership to come to their aid. “We want the mother party, that is the  APC, to help, not only Bauchi House of Assembly but to ask APC to assist refine democracy in Nigeria by helping to see that the right thing is done. That is proper inauguration of the 9th Assembly of Bauchi State”, he stated.  James Kwen, Abuja