Hygeia HMO, one of Nigeria’s leading health insurers, is expanding access with monthly payments of as low as ₦2,950 and individuals can now pay online and get reliable and effective health insurance to provide cover for a wide range of medical needs. With a legacy of integrity and excellent technological capacity, Hygeia Health Management Organisation’s monthly payment options are the most recent in a series of innovations the company has introduced. “Our mission is simple; to help our members access quality healthcare affordably,” says Obinnia Abajue, chief executive officer of Hygeia HMO. “The simplicity of this mission statement belies the magnitude of the problem we are committed to solving. Nigerians need access to healthcare that is not only of good quality but is also affordable enough for them to actually enjoy.” With pervasive crowd funding requests on social media by people who urgently need medical care but cannot afford to get it, Hygeia HMO plans to offer comfort to those wary of getting in similar straits. With monthly payments of ₦2,950 or ₦5,850, members will get access to coverage for up to ₦500, 000 or ₦850, 000 respectively. Hygeia HMO’s monthly payment options provide affordable entry points to millions of Nigerians who have had to go without health insurance because of the burden of bulk annual payments. Now, that bulk is broken and people can choose to pay monthly or annually at once. Either way, they get the same coverage and access to quality care. With the largest healthcare provider network in the country, Hygeia HMO offers the distinct advantage of members being able to access medical care nationwide. This means that frequent travellers, entrepreneurs and traders with family members or businesses in multiple locations across the country can be secure, knowing that they are covered wherever they are in Nigeria. The monthly payment options are launched in partnership with CREDEQUiTY. “The majority of Nigerians don’t have insurance. Hence health emergencies or even non-emergency situations continue to be a huge burden. We were happy to partner with Hygeia HMO because we want to change how Nigerians buy and sell so that people don’t have to wipe out their savings to get healthcare” says Tunde Leye, chief executive officer of CREDEQUiTY. ANTHONIA OBOKOH