Newly elected Speaker of the Cross River State House of Assembly, Eteng Williams has promised that the 9th Assembly under his watch would ensure that the lingering local government elections would be conducted. The state has not been able to conduct local government elections since the tenure of Council Chairmen elapse in the last four years. The state government has attributed the delay to lack of funds in conducting elections at that tier of government. Speaking to newsmen shortly after being inaugurated by the clerk of the House, Bassey Ekpeyong, the Speaker also promised that his leadership would train and retrain members and staff of the Assembly as a means of improving their capacity. “We shall make training a priority for members and staff. One of our major concerns is the welfare of members. Also, we will make a deliberate effort to involve NGOs in public hearings and develop a cordial relationship with civil societies. “Consensus cannot be good without effective communication. I will encourage the State to conduct Local Government elections,” the second term member said. The inauguration had in attendance nine newly elected members, 16 re-elected members as well as some out gone members Moving a motion for his nomination in the floor of the Assembly chamber, the member representing Ogoja State constituency Peter Odey said Eteng as a former Committee Chairman on Finance has discharged his duties creditable and found worthy in character and appealed to his colleagues to support his nomination as Speaker, Hilary Bisong member representing Boki 1 seconded his nomination and when the clerk of the clerk of the House Bassey Ekpeong who presided over the inauguration of principal officers of the 9th Assembly put the question of any other nomination, there was o objection. The clerk Bassey Ekpeyong also announced the election of the deputy speaker Joseph Bassey after being nominated by David Eta member representing Abi State constituency and Itam Abang member representing Boki 11 state constituency. In his acceptance speech, the new Speaker promised to work and collaborate with other tiers of government saying his agenda is project Cross River. He said the vote of confidence on him as their new leader is an affirmation of the entire members of the Assembly. He said he is looking forward to a more robust and dynamic relationship with the other arms of government. In his goodwill message governor, Ben Ayade said I wish to congratulate all the members of the Assembly for your success at the election. Also, on the approval of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Peter Odey was elected as the Leader of the House while Fred Osim emerged the Deputy Leader. In the same vein, Okon Ephraim and Regina Anyaogo are the Chief Whip and Deputy Whip, respectively.  MIKE ABANG, Calabar