In a bid to foster a shared and better future, Saratu Iya Aliyu, national president, Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce Industry Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), has called for a roadmap on capacity development of Chambers across the world.
Aliyu, who made the call at the recently concluded 11th World Chambers Congress in Rio, Brazil, noted that the roadmap would enable the Chambers, as private sector operators, make significant contributions to inclusive economic growth and development amid fostering a shared and prosperous future for countries and people across the world. While addressing delegates, she drew attention to the positive role the Chambers movement had played in Nigeria for the growth and development of the economy in partnership with government and other stakeholders.
She called for rethinking of the educational processes and specifically identified continuous training and retraining to enable Chamber members and future generations meet the challenges and opportunities unfolding in an era of e-commerce revolution, digital trade, start ups all of which were transforming the global. The Aliyu-led Nigerian delegation to the congress included: Babatunde Ruwase, president, Lagos Chambers of Commerce Industry Mines and Agriculture; Ayo Olukanni, director-general, NACCIMA; Toki Mabogunje, Bayo Jimoh, president, Benue Chambers, and the director of education Committee of NACCIMA and the Abuja Chambers of Commerce. The Nigerian ambassador to Brazil also joined the delegation at the Congress. One of the highlights of the congress was the signing of memorandum of understanding between NACCIMA and the Mauritius Chambers of Commerce and Industry (MCCI).
The NACCIMA president and V. Marday, her counterparts from the Mauritius Chambers of Commerce, signed the MoU on behalf of the two countries on June 14, 2019 in Rio, Brazil.
The MoU is designed to promote closer collaboration between the two chambers to promote private sector and business services between members of the two chambers. The MoU will also cover cooperation in the area of investment in textile, tourism, fisheries development and financial services. Another major focus of the MoU is sharing of experience and harnessing opportunities under the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act, an area in which Mauritius is known to have excelled by exporting textile and other goods to the US market.
A delegation from the MCCI is expected to visit NACCIMA in due course to meet members to discuss arrangements for a trade exhibition, business-to-business meetings and discussions on joint ventures between interested members of the two chambers. Aliyu also congratulated the Abuja Chambers of Commerce and Industry Business Entrepreneurship Skills and Technology (BEST) Centre for being selected as one of the five most outstanding Chambers in the world, with chambers of commerce educational and capacity development programme.
The ACCI BEST Centre was among chambers that competed for awards at the World Chambers Congress. However, the next world chambers congress will be held in 2021 in Dubai.