Luno Nigeria has announced Port Harcourt as the next destination for its Nationwide cryptocurrency literacy tour. The event which is slated for 22 June 2019, is aimed at bridging the huge knowledge gap in cryptocurrency and blockchain technology in the Southern region of the country. Luno is a global cryptocurrency exchange that allows users to buy, sell, send, receive and store Bitcoin and Ethereum. The company has its presence in 40 countries including Nigeria and just recently obtained license from the Securities Commission of Malaysia to operate in the country. In 2018, Luno disclosed plans to open more physical offices in other African countries before the end of 2019 as part of its expansion ambition on the continent. The company has over 2.5 million customers using its platform. “Cryptocurrencies are the future and we see it becoming mainstream in no distant time, that is why we are doing everything we can to educate everyone,” says Owenize Odia, country manager for Luno Nigeria. Port Harcourt is the third city in Nigeria the company is visiting in 2019. The tour train has been to Abuja and Lagos representing the North and the west respectively. Odia explained that the company’s investments in education in Nigeria is because of the strategic position the country holds in the cryptocurrency market on the African continent. “Nigeria remains the leading market in terms of peer-to-peer transactions in Africa as at 2018,” she said. Luno Nigeria carried out a survey of 1,000 adult Nigerians in early 2019 which showed that more Nigerians would want an opportunity to learn more about cryptocurrencies in order to make better decisions when investing or making transactions. The company also found that the desire to learn cuts across the gender and age brackets. Education, according to Odia, will ensure that less people are caught unaware by cyber criminals and ponzi schemes, hence drastically reduce the number of people who fall victim to fraudsters. “We have a Learning Portal that is a rich resource for those who want to know more about cryptocurrency and this is relevant for newbies as well as seasoned cryptocurrency players. Although we invest a lot in the security of our platform, we want every one of our customers to become educated, because the more they know the better they are,” Odia said. Odia disclosed that the company plans on touring more Nigerian cities and schools in 2019. To participate in the Port Harcourt meetup, register on http://bit.ly/2WYN439