VDT communications, popular wholesale broadband provider is launching 4G Long Term Evolution (LTE) service into the retail market to thicken competition in the space and help in Nigeria’s move to deepen broadband penetration and bring high speed internet access to more individuals and homes. The company which is known for the provision of premium quality services to enterprise customers is leveraging its acquisition of a broad channel 2.3GHz (Gigahertz) spectrum gotten from the Federal Government in 2014; through Bitflux Communications Limited; a consortium which VDT is the principal partner, to bring the same service to retail consumers. Industry watchers say that entrance of VDT 4GLTE coined “Live the Life” into the retail market will provide a lot more opportunities for the national market and increase competition, especially as VDT LTE is leveraging on the Bitflux network it painstakingly and deliberately built from the scratch to provide premium quality 4G broadband experience in the country. Speaking at the media launch of the service, Biodun Omoniyi, MD/CEO VDT Communications said; “Despite the existence of other players in the market, the decision to launch VDT 4G LTE service is owing to the gaps existing in the market due to poor quality networks, customer service and support service inherent in the market. VDT 4G LTE advanced has come to fill these yawning gaps with superior network quality, top-notch network performance and proactive customer and support services.” “The platform has been built for 4G LTE service, and there is no better platform to usher in the 5G that we are all gearing up for,” he added. The service which is to be launched next month, July 2019 is expected to cover the entire Lagos, and then other strategic states of the country later on. “Our official service launch is scheduled to take place early next month in Lagos. With the huge acceptance and patronage, we received during the pre-launch test period with about 80 percent network coverage of Lagos State, VDT LTE would expand strategically to cover the entire Lagos State, and other leading cities in the key economic zones of Nigeria and the rest of the country in phases,” Omoniyi said. VDT’s 4GLTE products range include home CPE and mobile mifi devices which come with an offering of free 3068 data. Free 8pm to 7am night browsing, with data plans for as low as N3,500, including free power bank [depending on the home CPE purchased]. “With the overwhelming patronage received even during the pre-launch, data consumers in Nigeria have demonstrated without doubt, their preference for high quality network and good customer support services. These attributes will take us to a higher pedestal now that the brand is officially launched, to give data consumers in Nigeria that premium browsing experience they have always craved for,” the company stated. Answering media questions, Omoniyi revealed that the company has partnered with Huawei and other Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) to provide quality equipment, and is planning to have channel partners VDT Communications Limited is an lSO 9001:2015 and the lst ISO 20000:2011 internationally certified Telecom Company in West and Central Africa. It currently operates in over 30 states in the country and provides services to all top banks and other financial services institutions in Nigeria, as well as other blue chip companies operating in different sectors.