To urgently address the security challenges across the country, Beni Lar, Member representing Langtang South /Langtang North Federal Constituency of Plateau State in the House of Representatives asked President Mohammadu Buhari to change the present Security Chiefs and inject new blood into the nation’s security architecture. Lar who stated this while addressing journalists in Abuja expressed worry that the service chiefs appointed at the inception of the present administration has not been change even as they are obviously overwhelmed with the security challenges. The Chairman, House Committee on Science and Technology particularly decried the herdsmen/farmers clashes in the Middle Belt and other States with scores killed and property worth millions destroyed. She noted that, “the incessant killings is as a result of breakdown of law and order and there is urgent need that security system should be totally overhauled and those heading the agencies should be replaced.” “In terms of insecurity in Plateau State, we have the same scenario in Benue, Taraba, part of Nasarawa. It is becoming a general thing now, of course we see Katsina and Zamfara having worst cases which is very unfortunate. “There is a breakdown of law and order in Nigeria and it is unfortunate, you see a lot of bandits, young men, teen agers less than twenty one, at most, 22. I think it is social problem that needs to tackled. “However, we have made suggestions as Members. I have brought a lot of motions to make sure that the security system is overhauled and up till now that hasn’t been done. “The same set of people, so how are we going get change with the same set of people. l think it is important that we have total overhauling of the security structure and those who have been heading it probably need to be replaced. “Operation Safe Haven in Plateau State, unfortunately there is an issue of underfunding because the reach out is very limited. I will like to see government put more money into Operation Safe Haven in Plateau State and I will to see government put more manpower in it honestly there is a lot of challenges”, Lar stated. On the constant friction between the legislature and executive, the Plateau Legislator said the situation is counter democratic and unnecessary because it foster delay in the passage of national budget and other critical sectors. Noting that the feud is due largely to lack of synergy between the two arms of government, she insisted that if the crisis is permanently put to end through dialogue and understanding, good governance can be better achieved. “The friction between the National Assembly and Executive is as a result of the checks the lawmakers put on the executive. As I urge the legislature to tighten oversight on the executive, I also want to urge the President to have a better synergy with NASS,” Lar maintained. Appraising the performance of the 8th House of Representatives, Lar stated that the lawmakers performed greatly by ensuring prompt and adequate passage of bills. In her Committee, the lawmaker said 9 bills were passed on science and technology, and that some of the bills were reviewed while others amended. She however lamented the refusal of assent to some of the bills by the President and urged him to look into the issues and synergise with the National Assembly to make make those bills become laws that would better the lots of Nigerians.  James Kwen, Abuja