To solve the problem of lack of transparency associated with the organisation of many talent hunt shows in the country, a group of five auspicious founders have unveiled Swypatune digital music contest, promising the winner an ultimate prize of N10 million, a record label. Predicated on the idea of fair and equal opportunity for people to vie without requiring connection with individuals at the contest’s helms of affairs, contestants will get the chance to participate by simply recording their songs and uploading it on the Swypatune software application from any location in the country. The founders, Peter Atorough, Effe Sacket-Barnes, Frank Fotso, Solomon Onu and Emeka Nkwogu have invested over $180,000 in the self-funded projected and are looking to garner about $300, 000 more to solidify the operation. The contest which will run for 10 weeks and free of any charges will accept initial applications numbering 10,000. It will be reviewed down to 100 by a team of creative professionals before the songs are open to contest on the application. Audiences will be able to vote the song of artists that appeal to them simply by swiping right as like and swiping left as unlike on the app. The votes and the evaluation by judges will determine how far a contestant goes and will narrow the competing songs down to a final 10, from which the winner will emerge. For every Swiphatune series, there will be a TV season to showcase the app’s highlight every week. “There are issues with many contests we have seen in the past because not everyone gets a fair chance to participate. If you don’t know somebody, it can be very challenging. We want to be able to solve that issue of needing to be connected to someone before you participate,” Atorough said speaking during the official presentation in Lekki, Lagos. “If you live in different states other than Lagos, you have to fly all the way to participate and that is not enough. To address all these problems and make sure that it doesn’t cost you so much to get the chance to become a star, we have digitalised the way music artist are discovered. You can sit in the comfort of your room and sing into the application or upload your already produced song into the app and wait.” This way, there would be no need to travel anywhere, no need to pay somebody to be connected simply based on merit. He noted that the founding team, well-grounded in digital marketing and business development in Africa have been carefully chosen to deliver the project which has never been done in Africa. Frank Fotso, another co-founder said the Swypatune will leverage on mobile technology to help discover talents lacking the stage to express their skills. He said the platform has been designed a win-win opportunity for everyone participating. Vendors can list products for free on the app; users who swipes to vote will gain swipe points which have monetary values that can be used to purchase services with partners vendors in airlines, hoteling and cinemas. “The biggest thing that has happened to Africa is mobile digital. It has helped us to leapfrog a lot of the barriers and technological disconnect with the rest of the world. Nigerian artists have become the toast of the world. This is big for us and we are proud. We believe in the youth with this contest. We want it to be fair and transparent. As you swipe you see exactly where each contestant is,” Fotso explained. At a time when about 18 reality TV shows in the country have been suspended by funding challenges for sponsors who cite harsh operating environment as problems, the digitalisation of the contest could result in a cost-effective model.  Temitayo Ayetoto