One of Nigeria’s leading real estate companies, Propertymart, is currently giving interested parties the opportunity to own serviced plots in three new estates, aptly dubbed The Fairmont. The Fairmont serviced plots are situated in three strategic locations, namely Alagbado, Arepo and Lekki-Ajah, and underscore the importance of quality and natural living within a well-defined perimeter.For those who seek serenity, splendor, space and security in their place of residence, the Fairmont presents a perfect opportunity, as it is built with those considerations in mind. In a commercial city like Lagos, it is not surprising to find auto workshops, where dead vehicles are fired up to life, located within places of residence,stealing the peace of the residents.In some other instance, motor parks, workshops or even ‘open markets’, filled with people sincerely trying to make ends meet,ensure that residents do not get the tranquility and peace they desire. According to Propertymart, who are renowned for developing and managing estates like Citiview Estate, Warewa; Bel Terraces, Life Camp Abuja; and Mitcheville Estate, Lokogoma Abuja, these are just a few amongst over a thousand scenarios that have prompted them to create estates like The Fairmont. Indeed, The Fairmont is a place where expectations are turned into reality. Designed to accommodate robust communities, the estates boast of well-planned residences, grocery stores, educational facilities, recreational facilities, beauty parlors and medical facilities, surrounded by beautiful shrubs and trees, translating into a very friendly and peaceful environment. Prospective home and land  owners would be delighted to know that The Fairmont Serviced Plots are within gated estates. In addition, infrastructures within the estates are of superior quality, ranging from paved roads, CCTV, covered drainages, pedestrian walkways, modern electrification with streetlights, lush green gardens, play areas, expansive walkways, perimeter fencing and uncompromising security details. This explains why this offer has been termed The Fairmont Advantage– it offers immediate value for investment. With a 30% initial deposit, a buyer would get INSTANT PHYSICAL ALLOCATION, while spreading the balance over a 6-month period. Longer payment duration is also available at a different offer price. Already,The Fairmont serviced plots are selling fast since they were opened up for the public, mainly due to the numerous added values to customers that can’t be matched anywhere else. For instance, The Fairmont offers an opportunity to own serviced plots of land with 30%initial deposit, as low as N1.1 million,after which the buyer can get instant physical allocation, while spreading the balance over a specified period of time. The Fairmont Advantage is brought to you by Propertymart Real Estate Investment,a real estate company that has been creating beautiful and sustainable living communities since 2008. Since inception, Propertymart has unflinchingly pursued a singular goal of advancing lives with high quality homes through the commitment of a viable board of directors and unwavering staff. This commitment also resonates in the company’s vibrant portfolios – a fascinating phenomenon that has helped in delivering over 6,000 housing units and serviced plots to happy families. For more enquiries, please visit Here  for more information on The Fairmont Advantage or speak with an advisor on 01-3426840, 08027006618, 07018122478 or 08034440727