The battle that raged in the emergence of Ahmad Lawan as the president of Senate and Femi Gbajabiamila as the speaker of the House of Representatives has shifted to who becomes the Majority Leader, Deputy Majority Leader as well as Majority and Deputy Majority Chiefs. While the main opposition People’s Democratic Party, PDP immediately appointed Enyinnaya Abaribe as Minority Leader, Emmanuel Bwacha as Deputy Minority Leader and Phillip Aduda as the Minority Whip, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has not appointed the Majority Leaders. But the battle to occupy the positions of Majority and Deputy Majority Leaders, Majority and Deputy Majority Whips in the Senate and House of Representatives have taken serious dimension among APC lawmakers jostling for these offices. Although the APC is yet to zone the Senate and House of Representatives leadership positions, a number of contenders across the six geopolitical zones are making serious consultations and lobbying to clinch, especially the Majority Leader slot. Contenders for Senate Majority Leader position include Abdullahi Adamu (APC, Nasarawa) from North-Central Zone, Orji Uzor Kalu (APC, Abia) from South-East Zone, Yahaya Abdullahi (APC, Kebbi) from North-West and Kabiru Gaya (Kano, APC) also from North-West. Those interested in the position of the House of Representatives’ Majority Leader are Ado Doguwa (APC, Kano) from North-West, Mohammed Bago (APC, Niger) from North-Central, Nkiru Onyejeocha (APC, Abia) from South-East, John Dyegh (APC, Benue) from North-Central and Mohammed Mongonu (APC, Borno) from North-East. Of all those angling for the Senate Leader position, there are indications that Abdullahi Adamu (APC, Nasarawa) from North-Central is said to have been tipped for the post. Meanwhile, the APC, in a bid to avoid the tense atmosphere that characterised the emergence of the National Assembly Presiding Officers which shook the party, would meet this week to zone and appoint the Principal Officers ahead of the July 2 resumption of the National Assembly from a post-inaugural recess. A National Officer of the Party who did not want to be mentioned told BDSUNDAY that the APC leadership is planning to meet this week to resolve the arguments on zoning and take a position in consultation with the Presiding Officers. “They never do it. It is next week they will do. You know they are on recess. They want to announce it when they resume. They cannot send it in vacuum. They are not on seat. “They are still arguing on the zoning. They never finished. It is between North and South-West but they said they want to give Abdullahi Adamu from Nasarawa, Leader of the Senate. But the House of Representatives they never talk,” the officer said.