Nigeria’s Tijjani Muhammad Bande, who emerged as the President of the 74th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) has assured of a dynamic representation at the UN, which will promote Nigerian, African and the interests of the rest of the world at the UN. A close aide to Bande told BusinessDay on Wednesday that the Nigerian permanent representative to the UN said this immediately after he was elected by acclamation on Tuesday at the UN headquarters in New York. The new President was quoted as saying that the world body will “see a positive representation” that will be more integrative particularly on issues that will project Africa, Nigeria and the rest of the world in line with the principles and conventions enunciated by the UN. UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, while congratulating Bande, noted that he understands the challenges facing Africa and the rest of the world, saying, “as a Nigerian and African, you have invaluable insights into the continent’s challenges- such as the Sahel and Lake Chad Basin and – and more broadly into the challenges our world faces across the three pillars of our work, peace, sustainable development and human rights.” The Ministry of Foreign Affairs had expressed delight that Bande was elected by acclamation as the President of the 74th Session of the United Nations General Assembly. A statement issued by the Acting Spokesman of the Ministry, Friday Akpan, noted that “the election is a positive development and demonstrates the confidence in Nigeria’s ability to pilot the affairs of the revered global institution. “ Professor Tijjani Bande is the second Nigerian to occupy the position. Major General Joseph Garba (Rtd) was the President of the 44th session of the United Nations General Assembly in 1989. Bande was born in 1957 and possesses chains of degrees from Nigerian institutions and from abroad. He will be in office as the UN gears up to commemorate her 75th anniversary, which is hoped to strengthen international cooperation and development.  Innocent Odoh, Abuja