The first stage of the ongoing Access Bank/ UNICEF Charity Shield international polo tournament came to a flourishing climax Sunday with outsiders, Fifth Chukker upstaging favourites and former winners, Tila Farms to win the prestigious Usman Dantata Cup. The Adamu Atta powered Chukkers who  were over looked by bookmakers  before the race galloped off, jumped into the lead from the starting bell, winning   their two steam  games   in a round robin format that pitch four ambitious teams.. Watched by a capacity crowd that included the Lamido Adamawa who was represented,  UNICEF officials, members of the National Assembly members, business tycoons  and thousands of polo enthusiasts,  Fifth Chukker team open with a spark scoring  two quick goals  through  Andrea  Crespo who pivoted them to a 8-41/2 victory. Tila responded strongly in the second chukkas through Tijani Ahmed  Altaf Suleiman and  Rabiu Mohammed, but their efforts came too late as the quartet of Bashir Aliyu, Murtala Aliyu, Crespo and team skipper Farouk Dangiwa  held tied to run out first ever champions o the debuting  Usman Dantata Cup. “This is unbelievable. As late comers nobody gave us a chance, but by cheer determination and the overwhelming support of our fans, we make it to the final and produced a stunning performance that over haul favourties and secured us the glittering cup,” declared Fifth Chukker Captain,   Farouk Dangiwa. Dangiwa who was voted the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the first stage of the charity event, thank Access Bank Plc for sponsoring UNICEF Charity Shield and dedicated their first Usman Dantata Cup title to the orphans and less privilege children across the country. The second stage of the international polo fiesta continue throughout the week with Lagos based STL team leading the pack for the race for the glittering Access Bank Cup. STL parading team patron, Seyi Tinubu, Abdulrahman Mohammed, Tom Lebrum and Leurue Hendriks  lost marginally 6-61/2  to homers, team Kangimi  in their second game, but still managed to stay top of the race, thanks to their thumping 10-61/2 defeat of Jos Malcomines in the opening game. Campaigns for the UNICEF Cup and the event’s biggest prize Charity Shield will pick up steam Wednesday with three championship matches billed to thrill the polo buffs and supporters of the UNICEF charity events that has set aside June12, to raise more awareness to the plight of venerable children across the country. For over a decade this   partnership has gone from strength to strength and many projects have benefited from the collaboration. A remodeled primary school and rural water projects funded by the Access Bank UNICEF Charity Shield tournament were commissioned recently. The Charity Shield began in 2003 as platform to support local charity organizations in Kaduna. Since 2006 this humanitarian effort has been geared exclusively towards UNICEF intervention projects for orphans and vulnerable children in Kaduna State. In 2008, the Charity Shield received a major boost when Access Bank agreed to a multi-year sponsorship deal, making the tournament one of the best-supported charity events in the history of Nigerian sport.  Anthony Nlebem 