Confusion has trailed the purported issuance of a Proclamation by President Muhammau Buhari for the holding of the first session of the Ninth National Assembly on June 11. The development comes as senators and members-elect of the National Assembly of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), commenced a marathon meeting with the leadership of the party in Abuja on Monday to decide on who to endorse as Presiding Officers of the incoming Assembly. As of the time of filing this report, presidential aides could not confirm the authenticity of the document, even as the office of the Clerk to the National Assembly, insisted that the document is genuine. The document which was dated May 30 and purportedly signed by President Buhari, declared that the first sitting of the National Assembly would hold on Tuesday, June 11, 2019. The document, seen by BusinessDay has the seal of the Office of the President as well as the signature of the President. The document titled, ‘Proclamation for the holding of the First Session of the Ninth National Assembly’ reads: “Whereas it is provided in Section 64(3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) that the person elected as President shall have power to issue a Proclamation for the holding of the first session of the National Assembly immediately after his being sworn-in. “Now, therefore, I Muhammadu Buhari, President Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, in exercise of the powers bestowed upon me by Section 64 (3) aforesaid and of all other powers enabling me in that behalf, hereby proclaim me in that behalf, hereby proclaim that the first session of the Ninth (9th) National Assembly shall hold at 10:00am on Tuesday, 11th June, 2019 in the National Assembly, Abuja. “Given under my hand and the public seal of the Federal Republic of Nigeria at Abuja, this 30th day of May, 2019”. However, the Presidency was unable to confirm the document as of the time of writing this story. In trying to seek confirmation to the document, a senior aide to the President was reached and he said he was not in a position to talk on the matter. The aide would prefer that all entreaties on the matter of Proclamation of the National Assembly be referred to the Presidential aide in charge of the National Assembly. When contacted, Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), Ita Enang, asked journalists who thronged his office on Monday evening to give him some time to enable him confirm the authenticity of the document. He claimed ignorance of the document. However, as of the time of filing this report at 7:43pm, he was yet to get back to our correspondent. A ranking lawmaker has condemned the secrecy surrounding the Proclamation matter. He alleged however that the Presidency was engaging in what he called a hide and seek game because it had ulterior motive to circumvent the constitution and due process in the election of National Assembly leadership.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja