As part of its contribution to boost post graduate professional studies for Nigerians, The Centre for International, Advanced and Professional Studies (CIAPS) has announced a 50,000 United State Dollars scholarship scheme for the 2019 Postgraduate Commonwealth students. The CIAPS Commonwealth Scholarships are part of the new CIAPS Scholars Scholarship programmes, which will directly benefit students entering postgraduate professional education in July 2019. According to a statement made available to BusinessDay, Anthony Kila, Centre Director, CIAPS said there are a total of Fifty (50) scholarships available, worth a total of Fifty Thousand Dollars (USD50,000) adding that each successful applicant can receive up to One Thousand Dollars to pay his or her tuition fees at CIAPS for the duration of the postgraduate professional study. Kila said that these scholarships are funded by individuals and corporations who like CIAPS are dedicated to the advancement of knowledge, learning and understanding in the service of society. According to him, “Our aim is to identify and help students who are pursuing higher learning so that they can use the skills acquired in playing a part in making their societies and the world a better place” He further said that students will be selected on the basis of a Test consisting of a Personal Statement and Interview advising that a good personal statement must not exceed 1000 words and it will be a chance to tell us about yourself, why you think you deserve this scholarship and how you think it will help you serve yourself and society once you graduate. Kila in the Statement pointed out that in order to be eligible to apply for the scholarship which closes on June 15, 2019, students must fulfill certain conditions some of which that such a student must be aged 22 to 30 with a degree or equivalent and must have graduated with a minimum of 2.2 or equivalent GPA. Other are such a student must have a desire to study for international professional courses that can lead to creation of jobs and wealth; be ready to commence study by 6th July 2019. Be Commonwealth citizens or be residents in a developing Commonwealth country. Be willing to study full time, weekdays in Lagos, Nigeria; Refugees or families of people working with organisations linked with developing Commonwealth countries are also considered and each applicant must meet 6 of these 7 criteria in order to be considered as eligible. Courses slated for these scholarships are in the areas of Banking & Finance Business Development, Production & Operation Management, Digital Business Management, Health, Education, Media, Office management and Events Management.