A pro-democracy group, Coalition for Good Governance and Justice (CFGGAJ), has lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for declaring June 12 Democracy Day and honouring late Moshood Abiola, saying history will be kind to him for the act.
The group, however, calls on President Buhari to go a step further by making sure the portrait of the presumed winner of the election, Abiola, is placed side by side with that of former Heads of State and Presidents. According to a statement signed by CFGGAJ convener, Emmanuel Umohinyang, President Buhari deserves commendation for shoving prejudices against June 12 election and the late Abiola, and giving recognition to the historic election.
The recognition is a clear testimony that Buhari is a true statesman and firm believer in fairness, justice and equity, Umohinyang said, noting, “June 12 has become a watershed in the annals of our national history. One cannot but recall with nostalgia ‘Hope 93,’ the campaign slogan of Moshood Abiola of the SDP. “That was the freest election our country, Nigeria has ever had, but that election was annulled by the gap – toothed man from Minna. The election was a sad reminder; it was better imagined than seen.
“Today, when you look at the clips of that era, you can’t but weep for the heroes and heroines, both living and dead who scarified their all for the actualization of June 12.
“We cannot but pay tribute to the legendary Gani Fawehinmi, Wole Soyinka, Senator Bola Tinubu, Chima Ubani, Beko Ramsome Kuti, Femi Falana, Yinka Odumakin, Kayode Fayemi, and others.
“They all were willing to sacrifice their lives for the actualisation of that mandate, some; we lost in the struggle, while some are still alive. “It is an irony that when Nigeria returned to democracy in 199, former President Obasanjo did not feel he owed an obligation to Nigerians by acknowledging the efforts of the Late Abiola.
“Ironically, many years after, President Buhari shoved aside those anti-democratic forces who did not want the mention of Abiola’s name in Nigeria’s history and went ahead to correct the wrong of the past. “Not only by recognizing and conferring on Abiola the highest honour in the land, given only to Presidents and past presidents, he equally jettisoned the infamous May 29 and proceeded to acknowledge June 12 as democracy day.
“We commend the President for doing what is needful, for assuaging pains of millions of Nigerians, across the country who freely gave their mandate to Abiola on June 12, 1993.