Former UEFA President, Michel Platini,  has been arrested in connection with a probe into the awarding of the 2022 World Cup to Qatar, a French financial prosecutor spokesperson said. The French football legend elected to lead European football’s governing body in 2007 was taken into custody by French anti-corruption police investigating the awarding of the 2022 World Cup to the gas-rich Gulf state of Qatar. Qatar was named as host of the World Cup in a decision that triggered controversy over its suitability amid allegations of corruption. Platini led UEFA until 2015 when he was banned from football for four years for ethics violations including receiving a two-million Swiss francs (€1.8 million euros, US$2 million) payment from former FIFA President, Sepp Blatter. “FIFA is aware of today’s press reports concerning Mr. Michel Platini,” a spokesperson for the body said. “We don’t have all the details about the matter (and) we are not in a position to comment further.” “Generally speaking, FIFA reiterates its full commitment to cooperating with the authorities in any given country of the world where investigations are taking place in connection with football activities,” the spokesperson added. Qatar has been accused of buying votes in its bid to stage the World Cup and a subsequent report by US independent investigator Michael Garcia unearthed an array of suspect financial dealings, many linked to Sandro Rosell, the ex-Barcelona president who served as a consultant for Qatar. Platini, a triple Ballon d’Or winner, was expected to succeed Blatter as Fifa president in 2016 before his fall from grace. He has been battling to clear his name ever since. Concerns over temperatures in Qatar have since forced FIFA to move the tournament to the winter for the first time ever, while watchdogs have criticized the Qatari government’s human rights record, the country’s ban on homosexuality and the welfare of workers involved in preparing stadiums for the tournament. But calls to move the competition to a different country have so far been rebuffed. The tournament — the first World Cup to be held in the Middle East — is set to take place between 21 November and 18 December 2022, in eight locations in Qatar.  Anthony Nlebem