The Comptroller General of the Nigerian Immigration Service (CGIS), Muhammad Babandede has said that the new international passport that will be rolled out tomorrow will have 22 security features installed within. Babandede reiterated that the era of multiple identities is over with the new integrated Passport that is integrated with National Identification Number (NIN) and biometric Verification Number (BVN). Nigerians with duplicitous intentions will now find it extremely difficult to obtain the new 10 year validity passport with these features installed within the new document. This is just as the Service has said that for passports declared lost and the owner starts a new process for another or acquires another only to turn around and use the old passport, the owner is liable to get 10 years imprisonment if proven he has two passports. Babandede who made this known yesterday ahead of the roll out of the new Passport document at the Ikoyi, Passport Office attributed the stringent measures to people who have criminal intentions stating that with linkages to the National Identity Number ( NIN), the Bank Verification Number ( BVN) it would be far more stringent in collecting the new document. “This new document will be linked with National Identity Number ( NIN), the Bank Verification Number ( BVN). Nigerians are meant to harmonize their identity and not travel out and start seeking change of name or identity for any frivolous reason that comes to mind. “The new passport will harmonize one identity for Nigerians and this will help our social development, economic development and above all, it will be difficult to change the data now,” he added. The CG earlier inaugurated eight projects from NIS partners and stakeholders including a SERVICOM Centre assisted by Heritage Bank, an 18-seater bus for the Ikoyi Passport office donated by Fidelity Bank, a lookout building donated by the Nigeria Ports Authority ( NPA). Others include a floor of their building located within the premises to handle Lost Care and Change of Name donated by Zenith Bank, a waiting lounge for applicants donated by Access Bank,the renovated enrollment room by Still Earth Capital as well as a Conference a Center donated by GTBank. Reacting to these projects Babandede said, “This relationship symbolizes that the private sector and government can work together. We need to learn from the private sector in terms of maintenance, and they learn from us. We are not in uniform to harass anyone we are here to protect and deliver a service. Responding for the Representatives of Banks, Amaechi Okobi, Corporate Communication of Access Bank said the bank’s would continue to support lofty innovations and would be there when called on. “We will continue to support Customer Service Responsibility (CSR) developments. We will not only rely on government and as private sector anytime you need us, you call on us, we asteroid here for you.”