African Independent Television, AIT and Ray Power Radio were off air today as the crack down on the broadcast media through the National Broadcasting Commission, NBC which yesterday said it had suspended the licence of Daar Communications Plc, owners of the stations, takes effect. NBC explained that the media outfit has violated the provisions of the NBC Act Cap N11 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria and the Nigeria Broadcasting Code. According to the regulator, the decision was based on the provisions of Section 10 of the Third Schedule of the NBC Act Cap N11 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. NBC at a press briefing in Abuja on Thursday narrated that, “following monitoring reports and complaints from concerned Nigerians about the broadcast contents of Daar Communications Plc’s AIT/Raypower broadcast stations, the NBC have over the last 2 years summoned on several occasions management of the company to address issues regarding the operations of AIT/Raypower with the company, particularly, Political Platform and Kakaaki aired on AIT. “In one of our meetings, held on 2nd June, 2017, the Commission expressed its disappointment with the way and manner Hate Speech, divisive and inciting comments are applied in discussion of national issues in breach of the provisions of the NBC Act and Broadcast Code. “Again, on 15th August, 2017, it became imperative to invite the company for yet another meeting on almost same issues. Furthermore, while addressing another meeting on 7th February, 2018 we highlighted issues of concern to the Commission which indicated that the company had been breaching the provisions of Sections 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 of the broadcast Code. The company’s delegates in their response promised to abate the breaches and comply with the law. “Recently, the Commission’s monitoring reports on AIT/Raypower indicate the use of divisive comments accredited to the segment of “Kakaaki”, tagged, “Kakaaki Social”, where inciting comments like, “Nigeria is cursed, we declare independent state of Niger Delta”, “Nigeria irritates me”, “this country is gradually Islamizing” and other similar slogans are used without editorial control in breach of the broadcast Code. We were therefore constrained to issue Daar Communication letters of warning dated May 27th, 2019.” The Nigeria Guild of Editors however described the closure as shocking and unbelievable. President of the guild, Funke Egbemode, said that the action of the NBC and the Federal Government was unbelievable. “This action is unbelievable.  Why would government do this in a democracy? This action is unacceptable and will not stand,” she said. In its reaction, the Ohaneze Ndigbo said the action portended danger for the survival of democracy in the country. Its President, Chief John Nwodo, said, “I’m sure that the courts will be alive to defend democracy. This action portends danger for freedom of speech in Nigeria.” The Peoples Democratic Party, said the action was an indication that dictatorship had returned to the country. It said that President Muhammadu Buhari was behaving like a king, adding that he had forgotten that he was no longer a military ruler. The National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, said Nigerians must rise up and defend democratic rule. He said, “This action of the government is most undesirable and unfortunate. It is an indication of what to come as the government must be planning to arrest Nigerians indiscriminately. “It is also an indication that the government has returned the country to military rule. President Buhari must know that he is not the king of the country. Rather, he should know that we are in a democracy. “We are not in a jungle. He should know that there was a country before he assumed office and there will still be a country after he must have left. He should build, instead of destroying.” The President of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Christopher Isiguzo, said the shutdown would be resisted by journalists in the country. He said, “This simply signposts the return to the dark days. The NUJ will not accept any attempt by anybody, no matter how highly or lowly placed, to arm-twist or gag the media from freely expressing itself.” Iziguso said, “If within 24 hours the decision is not rescinded, the NUJ might be forced to act.” Also, the presidential candidate of the PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar; a chieftain of the party, Femi Fani-Kayode; and Senator Shehu Sani faulted the suspension. Atiku said, “The legislature has been challenged. The judiciary has been tackled. If we stand by as the press loses its independence, there will be little to differentiate us from a dictatorship. This should not happen,” Atiku said in a tweet monitored by BusinessDay. Fani-Kayode, on his part, warned that the worst had yet to come under the present administration. Sani said, “The suspension of @AIT_Online is an utterly condemnable act.” Earlier, the founder of DAAR Communications Plc, Chief Raymond Dokpesi, alleged that its subsidiaries, Africa Independent Television and Raypower FM, were being persecuted by the NBC on instructions from the Presidency.  James Kwen, Abuja