Ali Ndume, aspirant for the position of Senate President, Kabiru Gaya, Orji Kalu and Francis Alimikhena, aspirants for Deputy Senate President Monday boycotted the meeting of the All Progressives Congress, APC National Working Committee meeting with the party’s governors and National Assembly members-elect to seal the deal for election of its preferred candidates for 9th Assembly presiding officers. Similarly, Umar Bago, John Dyegh and Olajide Olatunbosun, contenders for the position of the Speaker of House of Representatives were aslo absent at the meeting. APC has endorsed Ahmed Lawan and Ovie Omo-Agege for the position of President and Deputy President of the Senate as well as Femi Gbajabiamila and Ahmed Wase for the Speaker and Deputy Speaker of Representatives. Adams Oshiomhole, APC National Chairman while addressing journalists at the end of the meeting in Abuja urged Ndume to drop his ambition for Lawan, stressing that, the party knows all those who have stepped down are qualified but decided to show respect to the party. He said, “APC caucus in the National Assembly, that is, both the Senate and House of Representatives as well as all APC and members of the National Working Committee are meeting now. It is basically to firm up all the conversations and lobbies that have been going on, we have ended up the meeting with specific conclusion. “We have all agreed as a caucus to endorse distinguish Senator Ahmed Lawan as the APC candidate for the President of the Senate and Senator Omo-Agege as the deputy senate president and Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila as the Speaker. “All those that have stepped down as a mark of respect for the party leadership are all qualified and they are all unanimous to back the candidates of the party “Well, for now we are still trying to talk to Ali Ndume. I believe that he is a democrat. He understands that in a democracy, it is important t that he listens to the voice of the majority and accept the decisions of the majority. “I mean it is all about sacrifice. Like I said, I do not know of anybody who has been elected who is not qualified to become the Senate President, and senators are equal. For those who have stepped down, they have done that in recognition of the fact that at a particular point in time, only one person will emerge and I believe that my dear friend Sen. Ali Ndume will not be a lone ranger. “He will abide by the spirit of the party and he will respect our overall leader who is the president of our country, who is also the leader of our party. I do not have any fear, I believe Ndume will accept the will of the majority.”  James Kwen, Abuja