Aare Ona-Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Gani Adams, and several leaders of the Southwest have raised alarm over worsening insecurity in the region, saying the continuous killings of Yorubas by suspected Fulani herdsmen and other criminals had become a serious source of concern.
The leaders stated this Monday in Ibadan after an extraordinary session to appraise the security situation in Nigeria and the region. However, Adams, who chaired the session, noted that the activity of herdsmen posed a threat to the continuous existence of the Yoruba race and cannot be over looked by the Federal Government. On the same vein, Yinka Odumakin, publicity secretary of pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, stated that he was deeply worried about the escalating security situation in the region, stressing that it was alarming that the Federal Government had not taken any proactive step to deal with the issue. “We are worried that despite the current killings, raping and kidnapping of our people, the Federal Government have keep mute. “The Southwest is under siege, the Fulani herdsmen have taken over our territory; kidnapping and raping our people, can you imagine that the Osun State governor said he was almost kidnapped some week back, that is how bad things are,” Odumakin said. A former minister, Ebenezer Babatope, said it was becoming increasingly difficult to travel from one state to another within the region, urging President Buhari to find a lasting solution to the situation. “All I can say is that help us appeal to President Buhari to map out strategy to curtail this issue, our women are being raped, people are kidnapped everywhere, you can’t travel, we all are not safe,” Babatope said. Furthermore, the Are-Ona Kankafo said it was disheartening that despite several appeals and peace moves, the herdsmen had continued to wreak havoc across the region, warning that the region would not continue to fold its hands. According to Adams, “The campaign of blood by Fulani herdsmen, who have been ravaging our land, kidnapping, killing, maiming and raping our people in recent years has become a serious source of concern for the Yoruba race; a race renowned for their staunch passion for peaceful coexistence, national cohesion and development. “The threat posed to our existence by these blood-mongering marauders cannot be overlooked as we, as a people, believe that for peace and accord to reign among the multiplicity of people who occupy a common territory, all parties must play a role in ensuring that each and every unit in this country respect each other in all ramifications.” He further warned that the region would retaliate if the suspected herdsmen refused to obey its orders to leave the region, saying, “We cannot continue to fold our arms and let these bandits continue to soil our land with the blood of the innocent. Consequently, “Failure to reconcile themselves with these terms may warrant maximum retaliation as the principle dictates that a bully only respects a bully.” In a similar note, Gani Adams has charged the Inspector General of Police, Muhammed Adamu, on the need to be proactive in tackling the various security issues in the country. Speaking during a meeting with the representatives of the Inspector General of Police, Tuesday, Adams restated his beliefs in boosting local security, saying the best measure was to get people at the grassroots involved in local security. He told the top police hierarchy that as the Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, there were pressures on him to act on the issues, saying the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) was ready to partner the police, in solving the security challenges in the country, as the group had a history of winning the war against kidnapping, banditry and other social vices. “I commend the IGP on this move. The visit, as far as I am concerned, is a welcome development and it goes a long way in solving the menace. “The security situation in the country is becoming too worrisome with cases of Killings, kidnapping, raping and banditry are prevalent across the southwest states, and there is an urgent need to curb the menace,” he said. Responding, Chief of Staff to the IGP, Jude Nwankor, who led the team on the visit, said the reason for the visit was to seek Adams’ support in solving the security challenges in the country.
He said the police would be willing to partner with the Yoruba leader, based on his deep knowledge and experiences in the grassroots. “We are happy to relate with you as a prominent voice in Yorubaland. We know there is no way we can secure the grassroots without local intelligence. The IG has indicated interest in seeking your assistance and support and that is why we are here to tell you that the police as an institution is ready to partner with you”, he said Reflecting on the visit, a Yoruba leader, Akin Osuntokun, described the emissary as a long-awaited realistic disposition towards apprehending and containing the security crisis bedevilling the country. The synergy will go a long way in stemming the trend of rural Fulani banditry and associated crimes in the South West, he said. Personalities present at the meeting, includes Akin Osuntokun, Mogaji, Gboyega Adejumo, Asoju Aareonakakanfo of Yorubaland, Yinka Oguntimehin, assistant general secretary of OPC, Lasun Ogunfowokan. Others were superintendent of police, Peter Gana, and Stella Gowon.
At the end of the meeting, Adams later presented a letter to the IGP, indicating his support and proffering solutions to the insecurity across the country.