Lagos State governor, Babjide Sanwo-Olu, has urged his first set of appointees to immediately hit the ground running, as their appointments are critical to the success of the new administration. Sanwo-Olu made the declaration while swearing in the new appointees on Thursday. They include Folasade Jaji, secretary to the state government, Tayo Ayinde, chief of staff, and Gboyega Soyannwo, deputy chief of staff. Also swore in were six new permanent secretaries, including Ademuyiwa Eniayewun, who until his elevation was the medical director, Lagos Island Maternity; Olumide Erinle, principal, Apapa Senior High School, Education District IV; Oludara Okelola, principal, Babs Fafunwa Millenium Senior Grammar School, Education District VI and Wasiu Akewusola, general manager, New Town Development Authority. Others include Yewande Falugba, director, administration and human resources, ministry of Youth and Social Development; and Mustapha Osi-Efa, director administration and human resource, ministry of Home Affairs. The portfolios of the new permanent secretaries, according to governor, would be announced in days to come.
The governor said their appointments were a call to service and an acknowledgement of their track records in their various fields of specialisation. “This appointment is necessary and also critical for a smooth take off of this administration, which is barely one week old. You have been brought on board to assist the administration for effective actualisation of the visions and agenda of the APC, our state and the people,” he said.
He advised them to be innovative and receptive to new ideas that would continue to make the state a centre of excellence, and stressed the need to avoid complacency in the discharge of their duties. He also urged them to ensure delivery of services in tune with the demands of 21st Century economy and provide leadership to other levels of staff.
Responding on behalf of the appointees, Jaji thanked the governor for giving them the privilege to serve, and promised to justify the confidence reposed in them.