Bimbo Abioye, the founder and managing director of Fintrak Nigeria Limited, an indigenous fintech company in Lagos was recently honored at the smart cities forum 2019, for his strides in Nigeria’s information technology sector. Bimbo Abioye said he appreciates this award and recognition, as it shows that the company’s impacts are being recognized. “This award is encouraging, not only to me but to the Fintrak team and other indigenous ICT firms. We appreciate this award, we didn’t see it coming but we must be honest, we thank the organisers of this event for this and we are promising them that we wouldn’t rest on our oars in providing quality financial software and solutions to Nigerians and Africans. “Over the years, Fintrak has grown to be an international company providing solutions to tons of countries outside Nigeria. With physical presence in many African countries such as Ghana, Kenya, Central Africa etc. we have tried as much as possible to make impact in the African banking ecosystem. Our solutions such as IFRS, Risk management software’s and a host of others come in English and French languages, this is to demonstrate our pan African outlook. We believe that this award is in line with our strides and that of our vision”, Bimbo Abioye added. Adebayo Shittu, the minister of communication technology encouraged the award recipients to continue with the good works, which is changing the technology narrative and adoption in the country. Yemi Osinbajo, vice president, in his opening remarks tasked Nigerians to build smart systems that would power the country as we enter the fifth industrial revolution. Speaking about the company and what has achieved over the years, Ladi Ipioye said; “Fintrak is a global financial technology organisation providing innovative technology and business solutions to financial institutions in the financial services sector and enterprises across continents. With business offices in Nigeria, Ghana and Gambia and an army of software engineers and professionals with competencies across banking, finance, audit, consulting and software development.” Smart Cities Forum 2019 is a two-day event that brings together the pillars of our cities – representatives from the ICT, buildings, roads, transport and utilities industries – to educate you on the latest developments that are making our cities smarter and provide opportunity for collaboration to maximise the interoperability of new technologies across different industries. The annual event is hosted by Aftritex Inniative in collaboration with the federal ministry of communications and the federal ministry of power, works and housing that brings together the representatives from ICT, building, roads, transport and utilities industries in the public and private sector in Nigeria to have discussions on how to make our cities smarter, more efficient and better to live in.  JUMOKE AKIYODE-LAWANSON