Champions League sponsors, Heineken hosted an amazing final match viewing at the all-new Heineken House in Lagos for hundreds of fans. The match viewing which was spiced with a special performance from music star – MI Abaga had fans completely thankful for such an opportunity to experience football frenzy like never before. Also in attendance were Ace comedian, TeeA, Actor and media personality, Uti Nwachukwu, media personality, Folu Storms, ace sports broadcasterS, Colin Udoh and Chisom Mbonu and CEO Smooth Promotions, Ayo Animashaun amongst others. For Nigerian football lovers, this season’s UCL has been one to remember, and with all the football excitement fans had already gotten, there was no better way to cap things off than with another form of entertainment Nigerians crave. In one night, the lucky fans got the opportunity to dance to song after song from MI Abaga who coincidentally like Heineken is the Chairman. This season alone, Heineken has done a trophy tour, bringing the UCL trophy to Nigeria in April; alongside FC Barcelona legend, Carles Puyol, then had a number of match viewings and sponsored 7 fans to watch the second leg of the semi-final – the famous Liverpool Barca game at Anfield. All these gestures were ways of appreciating the fans for a remarkable relationship that has consistently grown over the 20 years that the premium beer brand has been a Champions League sponsor. At the final match viewing, at the upgraded Heineken House, fans maintained an electric atmosphere cheering their teams and bantering one another. Ending in a victory for Liverpool FC, The Reds got their sixth Champions League trophy, and the first for their manager, Jurgen Klopp. The huge following of the UEFA Champions League here in Nigeria had most of the fans present split over who to support, as well as some people who were just happy to watch the high tempo game they love the UCL for. Interestingly, the fans kept that electric vibe all through the night. Thanking everyone for coming out and for a thrilling season, Heineken’s Senior Brand Manager, Mfon Bassey said, “There is no other way this tournament can create this much excitement if it isn’t for you, and we as a brand are more than glad to bring you these unmissable moments every year.” There was a little entertainment from DJ BigN to finish off the after party as everyone sang and danced along.