Oladapo Akinkugbe, an Emeritus Professor of Medicine has called on the federal government to set up a Nigeria Health Fund which the private sector will be compelled to pay 0.2percent of their pre-tax profit into. He made the call after he was given a Lifetime Achievement Award at the 6th Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Award (NHEA 2019) in Lagos. Akinkugbe who went nostalgic, gave an account of how similar fund(s) was set up in the past, both in local and foreign currencies, but was frittered away by a past military regime. “The amount raised was so huge that it was almost higher than the Nigerian budget,  I believes with such fund in place, all levels of Nigeria healthcare system will be revitalised and transformed if well utilized,” he said. Akinkugbe who received a Lifetime Achievement Award, was presented by the Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Engineer Noimot Salako-Oyedele. Also Stella Okoli, Group Managing Director of Emzor Pharmaceutical and Professor Eyitayo Lambo, former Minister of Health were also given the Lifetime Achievement Award. Anthony Omolola, Chairman NHEA Advisory Board in his remarks said, “NHEA has continued to receive increasing acceptance by stakeholders because of its integrity. We got about 6,000 nominations this year. This is over 300% increase compared to nominations received in 2018.” “The large number of guests and nominees present here today is a further attestation to this.” Omolola added. Other notable individuals and organisations who were recognized and celebrated at the health award ceremony include; Mohammed Ali Pate and Ayobami Aranmolate who were given special recognitions for leadership in the reduction of polio in Nigeria and revolution in cosmetic surgery in Nigeria respectively. Grofin Nigeria, Access Bank, Smile 360 Dental, GE Healthcare , University College Hospital, Ibadan, Eye Foundation, Healthplus, May & Baker, DCL laboratory, Clinix, Drugstoc E-hub Limited were also winners in different award categories. Below is a roll call of all winners. PharmAccess Foundation sponsored the PharmAccess Outstanding Safecare Facility of the Year category and NHEA is organized by Global Health Projects & Resources in collaboration with Anadach Group, USA.  ANTHONIA OBOKOH 