Smile 360 dental and orthodontic clinic has for the fifth time in years emerged winner at the just concluded Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Awards 2019(NHEA). Smile 360 received the award for the ‘Best Dental Service Provider’ of the year category at the annual Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Awards, which was held on the 21st of June 2019 at Eko Hotel Convention Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. The award was received by Smile360 Clinical Director Amy Traore-Shumbusho who was accompanied by some of her team members on stage. Spreading the news of the win and expressing her zeal, took to social media; writing “On behalf of the Smile360 team, I, Amy Traore-Shumbusho, would like to use this medium to thank our lovers and supporters for helping us bring the NHEA 2019 ‘Dental Service Provider of the Year’ award home for the fifth time in a row! “I can’t aptly express the fulfillment my heart abounds right now, but I just want you all to know we profoundly appreciate this. This marks our fifth consecutive win, and it says a lot about our efforts and contributions to dentistry in the country,” she said. Traore-Shumbusho added that well-wishers have seen responded with congratulatory messages; with many patients asserting to the commendable works of the clinic – one wrote; “Congratulations Amy! You have taken dental care to another level. Appreciate your service and the excellent staff you have! I am still rocking my braces with style.” The Founder/Clinical Director followed up with a heartwarming speech which was posted on her page; briefly narrating the inception of Smile360 and appreciating supporters and lovers of the clinic as well as the NHEA committee for recognizing their unyielding efforts and contribution to dentistry in the country. The award would mark Smile360’s fifth consecutive win at the Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Awards; starting with the first win in 2015 then 2016, 2017 and 2018, 2019; all in the ‘Best Dental Service Provider of the Year Category’. The clinic offers an array of world-class treatment, using surfeit of cutting edge equipment – some of them include, Invisalign, endontic treatment, Digital Smile Design, cosmetic dentistry, implants, and Hollywood smile, among others. Amy has stated the clinic’s foremost goal umpteen times, describing it as an unwavering effort to change the way dentistry is perceived in Nigeria and Africa at large.  ANTHONIA OBOKOH