Nigeria’s capacity to tackle its high rate of micronutrient deficiencies among its population depends on the country’s ability to ensure the usage of fortified fertilisers and bio-fortified seeds in the production of farm produce. In Nigeria and the rest of Sub Saharan Africa, micronutrient deficiencies are common among its people due to over farmed, depleted and nutrient lacking soils as well as high acidity problem among others. This has put adults and children at risks from infection and developmental problems. Experts say micronutrient-deficient in the population could lead to weakened immune systems and thyroid problems. “Nigeria is the country with the third highest absolute number of children who are stunted globally. The root cause of this is soil deficiency of micronutrients and inadequate dietary intake,” said Ismail Cakmak, a professor of Plant Nutrition, Sabanci University, Istanbul, Turkey at training organised by OCP Africa for Agricultural reporters in the country. “For Nigeria to reach targets levels of micronutrients in food, the country needs to combine fertiliser fortification with plant breeding. This approach is sustainable and the most effective solution to micronutrient deficiency in food,” Sabanci said. He estimated the yearly loss of nutrients on Africa soil to worth about $4 billion annually. “The soil is depleted at every plant cycle and nutrients removed by crop plants must be replaced annually, otherwise, a serious depletion problem will occur on agricultural soils,” he said. He defined hidden hunger as the inability for people to get all the vitamins and minerals their body requires over a period of time despite consuming sufficient calories. Hidden hunger occurs when people do not get all the vitamins and minerals they need over a time, despite consuming sufficient calories. He identified that low nitrogen in most African soil is responsible for micronutrient deficiencies, while also saying that most countries on the continent have acidity problem with is soil which is responsible for low phosphorus retention. The plant nutrition said that good soil nutrition for plants will help address issues of heat stress on plants and climate change. Also, he noted good plant nutrition helps in pest and disease resistance, adding that high plant nutrition resist high pathogenic attacks on crops. “By adding agronomy compound to the breeding process in plant, it will help double the micronutrients requirement for human consumption,” he said. He stated that low fertiliser usage on the continent has limited yield gaps in Africa, while calling for increase in fertiliser application in Nigeria to increase farm yields per hectare. He states that Nigeria and Africa at larges have to adopt a holistic approach that is sustainable and efficient in increasing its farm yields, saying the country cannot afford to wait any longer as its population keeps growing at a faster rate. Mohammed Hettiti, managing director, OCP Africa said that his organisation will continue to support training for agricultural reporters to help improve their reporting. Hettiti noted that it had become pertinent to properly report human nutrition and soil nutrients as well as crop micronutrient requirements to help improve farm yields and drive growth in the sector. Similarly, Aniss Bouraqqadi, head of agronomy, OCP Africa, stressed that the prominent position of agriculture with its enormous opportunities to create wealth, jobs and enhance livelihoods. He stressed the need for partnerships, collaboration and networking and particularly public-private partnerships that will not only ensure that technologies reach farmers and stimulate innovation but also encourage growth of agriculture as a business, nurture private sector growth, which will, in turn, growing interest and employment opportunities. Bouraqqadi said collaboration was key to ensuring good nutrition for all, even in the face of climate challenges. He said OCP Africa is focused on educating growers to enhance crop yield through improved agronomy practices. “We are ready to partner universities and research institutions to strengthen research capacity to meet the challenge of access to nutritious food for the growing population,” he added.  Josephine Okojie