Again, the Coalition of United Political Parties, CUPP has kicked against Femi Gbajabiamila, the endorsed candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC for the position of the Speaker of the House of Representatives. CUPP apparently took this position when it said electing an internationally tainted personality to the position of Speaker will make mockery of the nation and rubbish both virtues and values which the ruling APC have long been arrogating to itself. The Coalition last week alleged that the federal lawmaker was not competent to be the Speaker of the House of Representatives because he had earlier been convicted of “wilful dishonesty” by the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia in the United States. CUPP also disclosed that it has through the Action Peoples Party, had commenced criminal proceedings against the lawmaker before Grade 1 Area Court of the Federal Capital Territory sitting in Karshi. Mark Adebayo, CUPP Co-National at a press conference in Abuja on Sunday insisted that a Christian from South-West where the ruling APC has zoned the Speakership of the 9th to should be considered and not Gbajabiamila who is a Muslim. According to him the Choice of Gbajabiamila and Ahmed Wase for the positions of Speaker and Deputy Speaker is further confirmation of alleged plans to Islamize Nigeria. “While the CUPP, the umbrella group comprising the opposition parties in the country, is not against the decision of the ruling party to zone the leadership of the parliament, we consider it paramount for us to lend our voice to guide the lawmakers as so that mistakes capable of throwing the country into avoidable crises are not made. “It is public knowledge that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has zoned the position of the Senate President to the North-east and that of the House of Representatives to the South-west. This, to us is acceptable as it is still in sync with the principle of rotation and balance being promoted in the nation’s political milieu. “But what has called for concerns has been the decision of the ruling party to micro-zone the positions to certain individuals. The essence of democracy as practised world over is the right of every individual to have the right to vote and be voted for. Therefore, micro-zoning to individuals is undemocratic and condemnable. “Looking and the multi-ethnic and multi-religious nature of our country, efforts must be made to ensure balance in political offices. President Muhammadu Buhari is a Muslim; his Vice, Yemi Osinbajo is a Christian. It is also clear that the position of the Senate President will be occupied by a Muslim Senator from the North-east. “Therefore, in line with the APC zoning arrangement the Speaker of the House of Representatives from the South-west must be a Christian. The delicate religious inclinations in the country must be balanced so as to allay the fears of alleged plot of the ruling party to Islamize Nigeria. “The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), the umbrella Christian body had already raised the red flag on this and it is important for members-elect to take cognizance of the fact. “While the President and the leadership of the party reserve the right to take a position that they deemed fit for their “Next Level”, it would not be out of place to quickly remind the authorities that competence, capacity and character can not be ruled out in the Speakership race and that doing everything against voice of reasons and all evidences to the contrary will not portray Nigeria well. “Electing an internationally tainted personality to the position of Speaker will make mockery of our nation and rubbish both virtues and values which the ruling party have long been arrogating to itself. “In truth, the composition of the house and it’s leadership is our national identity and the face of the nation. The consequences of a wrong selection at this critical moment when our nation is now the headquarters of poverty and other inhuman vices will rob off negatively not only on the lawmakers but Nigeria, and Nigerians generally irrespective of their political affiliation. “The top echelon of the ruling party and spirited Nigerians must not look the other way. If the ruling party mean well for Nigerians and it is sincere about it’s public image of fighting corruption and integrity personification, there would not be any need to tell the authorities not to put the interest of anybody above the national interest and identity before the party will tow the path of honour and allow reason to prevail. “The position of the Speaker of the House represents the of the number four citizens and and honourable. Such honour must not be conferred on anyone with shady antecedents. “Assuredly, with available facts and reports flying around, giving in to filthy candidate who lacks moral mettle and sincerity to lead the House would place another moral burden on the nation and ridicule the legislative house before the international community. “Against the above premises, we call on President Mohammadu Buhari and the ruling party to live up to their reckoning by ordering the anti-corruption agency to investigate the allegations of malfeasances against some of those angling to occupy the hallowed position of the honourable Speaker of the Ninth Assembly. “We are convinced that the newly elected members of the Ninth House of Representatives will never allow anyone with tinted past to emerge. We therefore call on them to look inward and choose one of the contenders from the South-west who is imbued with competence and credibility. And a Christian too to answer the question of religious balance”, he stated.  James Kwen, Abuja