Agricultural development is the process of expanding the capacity of the farmers and resources within the agricultural sector in such a way that the sector will be able to play an important role in accelerating the national development through the adequate provision of food for the entire citizens. The establishment of fish feeds production factory is seen as one of the ways to grow the agricultural sector substantially and create job opportunities, provide protein and generate income for the populace. Fish feeds constitute more than 70percent of the input in fish farming. It is therefore an important input. Every effort must be made to encourage investment in fish feeds production in the country. The project is seen as one of the opportunities for fish farmers to diversify and at the same time reduce the cost of feeding their fishes as the establishment of fish feeds factory will reduce their production costs as against buying imported fish feeds. Technical Information Fish feeds production involves procurement of ingredients such as maize, groundnut cake, starch, palm oil, fish meal. The ingredients are milled to powdery form and mixed together in a recommended proportion with water to make it marshy. They are later fed into the pelleting machine for the purpose of getting them into pellets. The pellets are later taken to the dryer for the purpose of drying. Effective drying enables the pellets to float in the pond. The more pellets can float in ponds, the better they is. To establish the project, you need to get a good site, procure and install the machines including the utility items. This is followed by procurement of raw materials. Serious-minded investors can be assisted to successfully set up the project if required. Cost Implication N Pre-investments : 100,000 Accommodation (Rental) : 500,000 Plant & Machinery : 3,000,000 Utilities : 850,000 Working Capital : 500,000___ TOTAL N4,950,000 ======== Profitability The plant has the capacity of producing 200 tonnes of fish feeds per annum. Net profit of N30,000 can be made on every tonne of feed produced. This translates to net income of N6 million per annum. This is another feasible and genuine means of livelihood for Nigerians. Author’s Contact: 08023058045, olumakindeoni2@yahoo.com  OLUMAKINDE ONI