Chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum, Atiku Bagudu has said that the Progressive Governors’ Forum want the All Progressives Congress (APC) to remain the ruling party in Nigeria. Bagudu, who led a delegation of the forum, stated this during the stakeholders’ meeting held at APC secretariat Lokoja. He urged Kogi State APC members to work in synergy for APC to remain in power in Nigeria, as he commended the party faithful for their outstanding performance during the just concluded presidential election that returned President Muhammadu Buhari to office. He equally commended Yahaya Bello for all he has achieved in the state since he took over the mantle of leadership in the state. “We want APC to remain the ruling party in Nigeria. So, synergise with each other for APC to remain in power,” he said. Speaking also, Governor Yahaya Bello assured the people of Kogi State that if given the mandate through the indirect primaries, his members were agitating for that the achievements recorded under his administration in the first term would be a tip of an iceberg, saying, “I want to assure you that whatever we have achieved is a tip of an iceberg. What we have done before, in second tenure, it will be bountiful. By our performance we will unite Nigeria”. Bello also urged all the aggrieved party faithful to come back and work for the success of the party.
He also told Hardy Ametuo, the embattled chairman that has been at loggerheads with his team, to come back as he promised them that their “stomachs that have gone down will soon swell up.” Also speaking, Senator Smart Adeyemi, who was defeated by the incumbent Senator Dino Melaye, said the people of Kogi State believe in Bello and that they are going to stand by him, defend his interest and make sure he takes his seat back come November 16 governorship election, stressing that he look forward to Bello going back to Abuja and passing the information that Kogi State APC has picked him, so that APC will continue to rule Kogi State. Abdullahi Bello, a former speaker Kogi State House of Assembly, emphasized that the first fundamental task of any governor is the peace and tranquility of the state, adding that Governor Bello has done so much in Agriculture, while assuring him that his local government will give him 98 percent of their votes.  Victoria Nnakaike, Lokoja