As President Muhammadu Buhari again takes Oath of office for second term, making him the 16th president of Nigeria, the expectations of citizens are high, hoping that his policy would be well executed to sustain development across key sectors of the economy. The 2019 presidential inauguration ceremony, held at the Eagles Square, Abuja, had the President, Muhammadu Buhari, accompanied by his wife Aisha, took oath of office and allegiance, administered by the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, as he swore to devote himself to the service and well-being of the people of Nigeria. The ceremony was a low key affair devoid of the usual pomp and pageantry and without an inauguration speech.  Attendance was strictly by invitation. It was however attended by a few party heavyweights, lawmakers, traditional rulers, business gurus, members of the diplomatic community and former leaders.  Consequently, some of the invited guests spoke on their expectations during the inauguration ceremony held at the colourful decorated Eagle Square Abuja. One of the prominent persons who expressed great expectations from the Buhari’s second term administration was Appolus Chu, King of Okori (Egbere Emere Okori, Eleme) and Paramount Ruler of Ogale, (Emere Ogale) in Rivers State. He said: “We are expecting the best from this new dispensation of political leaders. We also hope that this administration will end satisfactorily for all Nigerians.” Chu advised further that, “We should identify our mistakes and then improve on these mistakes and when we do that, we would gradually get much more matured in democracy.” For Michael Idakwo Ameh Oboni, the Attah Igala, His Royal Majesty, his expectations include rapid development in the nation, peace in every section of the nation and better economy. Other anticipations were that the issue of job creation and employment generation, would be a priority as far as the Buhari’s government is concerned while other hoped that the President would leave specific landmark legacies as he ends his second term of ruling Nigerian. They also expressed the hope that the President would bring more women on board. Also, Pauline Tallen, a former minister and ex-deputy governor of Plateau State, rather went spiritual. She said: “With the collective prayers of Nigerians, the President will make Nigerian better, put smiles on the faces of Nigerians and carry women along.” Some other Nigerians further sum up their expectations and plans to help government fast-track development for the citizenry. For, Aliko Dangote, Business Guru and Chairman of Dangote Group, he hopes to play his own part as a business community while partnering with government for the good of the nation. “Definitely, it is a good partnership between us and the government and definitely we would take Nigeria to the next level”, Dangote added, while noting that although the last administration tried its best but could do better this term. “Normally in the first term, they don’t usually show their strength. So, this second term, I am sure would be much better than the last term”, he added. Others further expressed the hope that the President would avoid pit holes, having learned from his mistakes of the last administration. They hoped that in the last four years, Buhari must have learned a lot of lessons, and then would avoid any pit-holes that may cause hindrances to the present administration.  ‘