Nigeria’s Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo is one of the headline speakers at the maiden edition of Techmoney Africa Summit which kicks off on Monday, 10th June, 2019 at University of Lagos (Unilag). The summit intends to position the tech ecosystem in Nigeria and Africa for the right investors to locate them. Unicorn Making the organiser of the event in a statement sent to BusinessDay, noted that Africa has benefited from unprecedented capital inflows into technology, with Nigeria as the premier destination for tech investment. With Lagos driving tech investment and innovation, Nigeria, it said, is definitely leading the change. It further noted that the summit will ensure that technology, innovation and strategy leaders across major organisations and enterprise in Africa engage with the next generation of disruptive and exponential technology and opportunity, so that they can continue to drive value for internal and external stakeholders by being at the heart of the technology and innovation that is changing the world and providing real opportunity to change lives for the better. “Dare we re-imagine a powered up, technologically advanced Africa, a society with reliable electricity supply, stable telecommunications infrastructure, fast and efficient transportation? This could transform Africa and the lives of its 1.3 billion citizens. We are ready to write our own story, change the script, introduce new players and take centre stage,” the statement said. Aside from uniting tech entrepreneurs with investment opportunities, Unicorn Making hopes to create a platform to enable investments in the right areas, using the right processes into the right products and build an enabling ecosystem for technology and innovation in Africa. Speakers expected at the two day event include Akintoye Akindele, partner, Synergy Capital Managers, Wuraola Abiola, Management Transformation; Clen Cook, executive, RIIS, South Africa; Maya Horgan Famadu, partner, Ingressive Capital; Obinna Ekezie, CEO Wakanow; Thelma Ekiyo, CEO, Afrigrants among many others. 