Union Homes Real Estate Investment Trust has released its key performance metrics for the period with Victors Court and Savannah Court the most preferred among its estates. With nine properties under its management, the REITS had N9.86 billion net asset value (NAV) as at May 31, 2019 with 0.49 percent delinquency rates. Estates under the management of this fund include McDonald Court in Ikoyi; Savannah Court in Victoria Island; Contemporary Apartment in Parkview Ikoyi; Olive Apartment in Jabi, Abuja; Continental Apartment in VI; Victors Court and Charter Court both in Lagos. Others are Amina Court in Apo, Abuja and Locke Apartment in Lekki, Lagos State. With 100 percent occupancy rate, Victors Court was the most preferred by individuals amongst the Union Homes’ estates. It has three housing units and the property is aged seven years with a 4.21 percent yield. This is followed by Savannah Court with 93 percent occupancy rate. It has 14 housing units and the property has been in existence for just eight years. The current yield on this estate is 4.27 percent. Charter Court in Ikoyi Lagos, with eleven housing units, posted the third highest occupancy rate of 91 percent. It is also aged seven years, with 3.22 percent yield. Mcdonald Court in Ikoyi Lagos, with 8 housing units recorded 86 percent occupancy rate just as its current yield is 4.10 percent and has been in existence for eight years. Locke Apartment in Lekki recorded 80 percent occupancy rate, 6.51 percent yield and has 15 housing units in its three years of existence. Contemporary Apartment in Parkview Lagos has been in existence for seven years. It has 4 housing units and recorded 75 percent occupancy rate. Current yield is 4.24 percent. The least performing apartment according to the NSE data is Amina Court in Abuja with posted just 40 percent occupancy rate during the reference period. It has 5 housing units, has been in existence for 3 years with zero yield. Olive Apartment and Continental Apartments have twelve and twenty-two apartments respectively and each has been in existence for seven years. However, there is no information available on the types of tenants , length of tenancy while the current yield is zero on either of the apartments.  TELIAT SULE