Kayode Agbetokun, the Kwara State Commissioner of Police has enjoined Nigerians to step up corporation with the police in the fight against crimes in society. According to him, the police cannot succeed in isolation of the people and that is why “our police philosophy in this state has been community-based.” Egbetokun, who spoke to journalists after the command paraded four suspects in connection with a kidnap case, said: “I appeal to the people to continue to support the police in the fight against crimes in the state and the country at large. “We believe that we need to engage members of the public, we need to partner with the people and we expect people to also partner with us. “People should keep supporting police and give more cooporation to reduce criminality.” Meanwhile, one of the criminals, Yemi Samuel, a middle-aged house wife, who allegedly kidnapped herself, revealed that she perpetrated the act in favour of her husband. Parading the suspects, the state commissioner of police said Samuel was arrested for allegedly hatching a self-kidnap scenario. According to him, on the 15th of June this year the suspect left home and went into hiding, claiming she was kidnapped while cleaning the compound by an unknown gang, adding that she was taken to an unknown destination and demanded five million naira to secure her release. Egbetokun explained that the suspect said her kidnappers were not willing to speak to anyone for fear of their voice being recognised but the ransom has been reduced to one million naira. He further said effort was intensified and five hundred thousand cash was arranged by her husband as well as family and well wishers. She directed them to take the money to Iluke town but before the transaction could be effected, Yemi was later arrested by the operatives of the Special Investigation Bureau of Kwara State command at Kulende area of Ilorin where she hid herself in a rented apartment. “I arranged for my kidnap to resolve financial problems. My husband is retired and I am jobless. We have approached my husband’s family who are rich but they didn’t respond. “I am ready to work and will be glad if wealthy people can assist me and my husband,” said Yemi Samuel. The police boss also said on 10th June, this year the other three suspected kidnappers, Jenmo Usman, Iliyashu Muhammed and Maude Umaru were arrested at Idofian in Kwara State after picking a polythene bag containing leaves believing to be the two million naira ransom they ordered one Sharafa Yusuf to bring to save his life. Egbetokun said all the suspects would be charged to court as soon as investigations are completed.  SIKIRAT SHEHU, Ilorin