Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC), a standard setting and certification organisation, recently granted membership to Kian Smith Gold Refinery, the first-ever gold refinery company in Nigeria. RJC, which covers all parts of the jewellery supply chain from mine to store, developed standards and provides certification that confirms the compliance of companies with social, environmental and ethical standards. The membership of Kian Smith shows that the company is committed to complying with the world standard in gold chain, including procurement and processing. Nicole Smith, Event Manager, Gold West Africa, said the Gold West Africa conference will be highlighting aspects of compliance in adhering to the global ethical standard in gold supply chain. “It is increasingly important in the global markets to show transparency and conflict-free in sourcing for minerals,” she said. According to Smith, a big component of responsible sourcing is not just about the legality of the source, but also ascertaining that chemicals harmful to lives and the environment are not involved in the gold value chain. In this regard, the company has been working and educating suppliers around the country to make sure that they meet all requirements necessary to comply with Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)’s responsible supply chain guidelines. Presently, there is no gold standard recognised in Nigeria or the West African region. Later this month, the company will be involved in the Gold West Africa Conference that is centred on the gold value chain, where it plans to discuss and tackle the possibility of having ECOWAS region to adopt uniform international standards for gold. At the conference, the Standards Organization of Nigeria (SON) will be shedding some light on its recent efforts in gold standard while United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) will be speaking about its efforts to address sustainability and other developmental issues in gold value chain of Nigeria and the West African region. The conference will hold on June 25th and 26th at Eko hotel, Lagos. Fagbemi Aremu, a local miner resident in Ilaro, Ogun State, said, though he has not come in contact with the company, the news he had heard about an incoming gold refinery company would give value to their work, instead of being exploited by foreign buyers. “With this company, we will have more money and our economy will be improved,” Aremu said.