Jobberman, an online recruitment platform, has appointed Hilda Kragha as new chief executive officer, who would pilot the affairs of the business after the exit of Ayodeji, former CEO and Co-founder of the firm barely one month ago. Kragha joined the business as the new CEO on 10th June 2019 and would be responsible for the growth and operations of the company, the career recruiting firm said in a statement. Prior to her joining the business, she worked as an engagement manager for global management and consulting firm McKinsey & Company, advising blue chip clients on strategy, human capital, and organizational transformation projects. “I am excited to join the Jobberman team at a time when Africa, specifically Nigeria, is at the cusp of redefining the way we approach talent management and workplace productivity. I look forward to engaging with all of our stakeholders and driving positive impact across the country.” Kragha said Jobberman is Nigeria’s No.1 jobs and careers platform, bringing the best employers and candidates together and improving productivity in the country. Jobberman has over 2.5 million candidates, matching them with more than 100,000 employers in their database. Through its success, the company has become a real entity in the labour market through unprecedented market insights such as Top 100 Employer Reports. Jobberman Nigeria is part of the ROAM Group, the largest and leading classifieds and online marketplaces company across Sub-Saharan Africa. The ROAM Group (“Ringier One Africa Media”), is a group of companies that combines the leading digital classifieds in Sub Saharan Africa. Unified by its mission to connect Africans to opportunities and be Africa’s most user-centric marketplace company, it operates across eight Sub Saharan countries, namely Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Ethiopia, and Senegal. Clemens Weitz, CEO of ROAM, said “Nigeria has one of the largest and fastest growing workforces in the world, rich in opportunity and global relevance. Hilda’s experience, but more importantly, passion to bring positive change to the labour market has made her the best possible person for this unique position. We wish her great success in redefining the boundaries!”  MICHAEL ANI