A Veteran Actor, Film Director and Producer, Dele Odule, would be the Guest Lecturer at this year’s Faculty of Arts, OAU, Ile-Ife, Distinguished Guest Lecture and Award Ceremony, scheduled for Tuesday, 2nd July, 2019 by 11:00am in Oduduwa Hall of the University. A graduate of Mass Communication and current President of Theatre and Motion-Pictures Practitioners of Nigeria (TAMPAN), Odule will share his experience and knowledge in the field over 40 years in the theatre and movie industry in Nigeria with the University Community, in the usual exploration of the bond between the Town and the Gown. A release by the Public Relations Officer of the University, Abiodun Olarewaju, stated that the Distinguished Guest Lecture Series is an outreach platform through which the Faculty seeks to promote healthy exchange of ideas and smooth interaction between theory and practice. The programme is also designed to generate a new body of knowledge towards the realization of a politically stable and economically developed Nigeria.  The goal of the Lecture, no doubt, aligns with the University’s mission of promoting “the advancement of knowledge and its practical application to social, cultural, economic, scientific and technology problems”. On the occasion, the Faculty will honour and acknowledge the contributions of some artistes drawn from different parts of Nigeria, who have excelled in the Theatre and Film Industry.  Among them are Adebayo Salami (Oga Bello), Lagos;Alli Nuhu, Kano; and Patience Ozokwo (Mama G), Enugu.  Some Artistes who had served the University and retired from the Awovarsity Theatre Company will also be honoured. They include Gboyega Ajayi, Peter Fatomilola, Late Laide Adewale, Tunji Ojeyemi, HRH Oba Abiola Fakoyejo Awosemo, Rogbesin of Tafa Aperin Kingdom, Ife, and Pade Babatunde. The Stan-up Comedian, Helen Paul will make a special appearance.  The occasion will feature dance and drama performances by invited Troupes.  Members of the University Community and the general public are cordially invited.