The Executive Secretary of Nigerian Christian Pilgrims Commission (NCPC), Uja Tor, has said that the time has come for Nigerians to do away with ethnicity and religious differences and join hands in building a united nation to attract more development to the country. He gave this charge over the weekend at the meeting of Pilgrimage Leaders and Managers of Nigeria at the  NCPC Corprate headquarters in Abuja, a statement issued on Sunday by the commission, said. He challenged Nigerians to arise, do what is right at all times and depart from corruption that had seriously affected the nation and embrace the word of God. According to him, “Let’s assist the government in actualizing the dream of a better Nigeria. Nation building must be seen as a collective work that cannot be left in the hands of few people”. “Being patriotic is loving ones country; deeper commitment to the welfare of co-compatriots or citizens, passion to serve one’s country or the desire to be great among other nations of the world”. The NCPC boss said Nigeria can be the country of our dream if we can eschew enmity, and nepotism, and embrace religious and ethnic tolerance. In his words, “We must learn to see ourselves as brothers and sisters irrespective of ethnic background or religion. There lies a greater strength in our diversity”. He urged Nigerians to see themselves as partners in progress,  “our leaders cannot be left to do the work of nation building alone. Our criticism of the government must always be constructive and objective, and we must as well offer solutions to them in tackling the countless problems facing our beloved country”, he said. The NCPC boss further stated that this is a clarion call to political functionaries, religion leaders, Nigeria securities, parents, children and all Nigerians to embrace the spirit of patriotism in totality.“We should be responsible and make it a duty to make Nigeria a better place. Let’s shape this nation and follow the creed we recite in our national pledge”. Adding that “God loves this country so much, and that is why we have been weathering all the storms; we will continue to make efforts to make Nigeria better,” he said.