Total Health Trust Limited has for the third time in four years emerged winner at the just concluded Nigeria Healthcare Excellence Awards 2019 (NHEA).
Total Health Trust received the award for the Health Maintenance Organisation (HMO) of the Year category, a position keenly contested by other nominated HMOs including Avon HMO, AXA Mansard, Hygeia HMO and Redcare HMO. The annual Nigeria Healthcare Excellence Awards 2019 held June 21, 2019 in Lagos, represented the sixth edition of the event, started in 2014.
The annual event is organised as an initiative of Global Health Project and Resources (GHPR) in partnership with Anadach Group USA, and seeks to recognise outstanding institutions, organisations and personalities within the private, public and not-for-profit sectors, who are creating a positive impact in the healthcare industry. 
The Awards evaluation process is undertaken by an independent panel of jurors, site assessment visits, rounds of nominations and voting by healthcare consumers. This objective process has made the NHEA awards both highly coveted and a trusted mark of quality and excellence, which is driving higher standards in service delivery in healthcare. Total Health Trust has demonstrated consistency in its performance over the six-year tenure of the Awards, and has been nominated every year since 2016 in the Health Maintenance Organization awards category, winning the award in 2016, 2017 and now in 2019.
Commenting on the achievement, Nick Zaranyika, Total Health Trust’ CEO, said: “Winning this award again for the third time in four years is testimony to the fact that we are leading the industry in service delivery of health insurance solutions.
“This award would not have been possible without the support and partnership of our various stakeholders. We are grateful for their continued support and we will continue to work hard to ensure that we maintain and improve on the service we deliver to them.” Other winners at the NHEA 2019 include Oladipo Olujimi Akinkugbe (Lifetime Achievement Award), Lily Hospitals, Warri (Private Healthcare Provider of the Year), Synlab (Private Laboratory Service Provider of the Year), Clinix Healthcare (Radiology Service Provider of the Year) and Access Bank (Outstanding Healthcare SME-Friendly Financial Institution.
Total Health Trust Limited recently celebrated over 21 years of operations and continues to make consistent investments in the health insurance ecosystem through the development of innovative customer-focused health insurance products, processes, technology, partnerships and infrastructure, with an aim to deliver on its vision to be the preferred national health insurer providing sustainable healthcare insurance solutions to Nigerians.