Ha-Shem Network Services Limited, a leading IT company located in Lagos, and Abuja, Nigeria has announced that it has officially changed its name to Ha-Shem Limited, and has also officially become an Independent Software Vendor (ISV). More than 14 years in the industry, Ha-Shem has evolved to provide services far beyond just Infrastructure, Cloud Services, training and Support. Ha-Shem offers four main service groups; IT Security, IT Management, Cloud Services and its newest service offering, Software Development. With this comprehensive range of services, the name Ha-Shem Network Services Ltd. no longer reflected the scope of experience and expertise that Ha-Shem’ professional experts provide, and therefore the name has been changed to Ha-Shem Limited. According to Mojisola Sodunke, managing director, Ha-Shem Limited, “The name change was a tough decision as we have been known as Ha-Shem Network Services Limited by our customers for over 14 years now, however, it was a necessary decision as it now clearly communicates who we are, what we do, and what we stand for.” She added that, “With this change in name, we will still provide the great service that has distinguished Ha-Shem as one of the premier IT firm in Nigeria”. The Ha-Shem Limited Management team was also happy to share their latest milestone of being an Independent Software Vendor (ISV) leading to them unveiling their latest innovation – Havis 360. Havis 360 is a suite of business applications that identifies the challenges of organisations in various industries and sets out to address these challenges by taking on a digital approach to deliver an array of intelligent applications that drive simplicity, security, and efficiency within that organisation. According to Ha-Shem’s Chief Technical Officer, Olajumoke Toriola ” Havis 360 is that suite that seeks to take companies on their digital transformation journey by helping them automate their traditional processes”. Ha-Shem Limited is a leading IT service provider that has been in existence since 2004. In partnership with major OEMs like Microsoft, Cisco, Sophos, SolarWinds, etc., the company delivers top notch solutions and services, and have been recognised for its expertise through numerous awards including the Microsoft Country Partner of the Year Award which it has won three times in five years. The company provides deployment service, support, build its own solutions through its brand Havis 360 and develop custom solutions for organisations that want to automate their processes.  IFEOMA OKEKE