A man will be imprisoned in a room that is unlocked but opens inwards, as long as it doesn’t occur to him to pull instead of push. Businesses fail for the same reason; the lack of awareness of a few potholes while driving it as a startup. As exciting as that your start up is, know the facts, 80 percent of startups in Nigeria fails in their first 5 years. This can be averted. So before you start another business, or fail with that idea and startup, consider the following;  Alliance formed the APC. Or better yet, make it 3 founders (Jay-Z, Dame Dash and Biggs Burke started Rocafeller Records).  Now, over to you, what is your other founder bringing to the table? Skill, network, drive, experience, funds, brand equity?   Every now and then, the why should be stated as a reminder of the reason for the firm’s existence. Most business and operational level decision should be checked to ensure that it’s in alignment with the firm’s essence. Take for example Alphabet, the trillion dollar parent company that owns Google built their “why” on making all complex form of knowledge easily and affordable (and that has led to the development of Google search, Google Map, Gmail, acquisition of YouTube etc.) what you see in all these subsidiaries is the same ideology of making complex information easily and affordable. Apple’s central ideology is on simplicity. There is no one Apple product you need a manual to use; what else can even be simpler than A for Apple. To increase the chances of having a successful startup, find your own “Why”, define it, start from it and walk through to create your products, staff, culture all in alignment with it. The “why” of great organizations simplifies who they are and all that they know. They seem to have also drawn the ”how” from a complex bunch into a single organizing idea, a basic principle or concept that unifies and guides everything all through. Great firms with why seem to have a template for having the same results over and over again even when they move from an obsolete  model or even product to a new one due to market dynamics.   The quest of money too fast puts startups under pressure. Make your business about essence than profit. Revisit the revenue generation column of your business model canvass and try to be as indirect as possible. By the way, a business model refers to how a business or an organization hopes to capture and distribute value for profit. The big question is, should it be static or dynamics. It answers questions on your value propositions, market and customer segments, revenue streams, production framework, distribution networks, cost structures and growth plan. It is dynamic and should be responsive to market forces and evolving times. Ensure that revenue is not out at the forefront. And just because a business hasn’t started making money yet doesn’t mean it’s a failed model. In times of cash flow challenges, understand that even revenue resistance is an assistance if you have the persistence.    We make a little money and we get our eyes off the ball. Stay focused. Focus creates blindness. When you focus on something, blinding away distractions, magic happens. Also be sincere and open, to your team and your customers. They know you are human and that you are bound to make mistakes. It’s okay to engage them at times when things are not going as planned and have a template to deliver the facts but that you are on top of the matter and working towards getting better. Don’t over value what you are not and undervalue what you are. Being a startup is not a disease, it’s an exciting phase. Carry them along it. Also have the discipline to follow through with commitment. As business people, we all need to master the art of discipline and delayed gratification. I mean don’t let pleasure distract where you are going to. Don’t lose your stamina on the fast lane, keep that conversation of growth always in your head and persevere till you get there. As you grow, comfort and distractions may set in. But never let a win get to your head and a loss to your heart. Choose your fights. You will never reach your destination if you stop to throw stones at every dog that barks at you. Don’t let offence or pleasure distract where you are going.  Success is all about work process and ethics. Stay true to you. Extraordinary work ethics means hard work and commitment. And commitment means staying true and loyal to what you said you’ll do, even after the mood and situations you said it has left you.   Eizu Uwaoma 