After a successful exhibition of world-class products at the 5th Plastic Print Pack Trade Show 2019 at Landmark, Lagos, recently, Sarsoli is set for this year’s edition of the global show tagged k Fair 2019. Sarsoli Industries, which started in 2011, is the first plastic master-batch manufacturing company in Nigeria based in Lagos. In 2013, Sarsoli was the first company from West Africa to exhibit at the K Fair, Dusseldorf, Germany, the largest plastic industry fair in the world. The participation was repeated in 2016 and hopefully again in October 2019 when it will be exhibiting and showcasing made-in-Nigeria products at the fair. Sarsoli exhibits made-in-Nigeria products in all the exhibitions throughout West Africa in joint collaboration with NEPC. This year at K fair Dusseldorf, they will be in Hall 8A booth number B 41 talking to people from around the world and introducing them to things done in Nigeria as they place Sarsoli Industries on the global map and also strengthen their presence in Nigeria and West Africa. From their third exhibition at K, they expect and continue to look forward to the innovation the fair continues to bring as exhibiting at the fair proves that they are conscious of producing quality products and are at par with some of the leaders in the plastics industry. Also being at the K fair gives them the first-hand information on new technology introduction in the plastic and allied industries. It was after Sarsoli exhibited at K2013, that they started to export master-batches in 2014 to neighboring countries of Nigeria in West Africa who showed interest in their products. Sarsoli Industries have now expanded to Ghana and operates an office there. The K fair has been instrumental in helping them expand to their target demographic across West Africa and the focus within ECOWAS provides zero import duty, hence their product are cheaper compared to importing from elsewhere and also since it is within ECOWAS, supply time is fast and foreign exchange income is generated by exports. Sarsoli currently services the plastic industry, which is one of the largest industries in Nigeria, producing items like jerry cans, shopping bags, chairs, tables, buckets, sacks, mats among others. In the production of master-batches there are nearly 20 different ingredients used to get different coloured master-batches with nearly 40 percent of these ingredients imported from different parts of the world like, India, China, Egypt, Germany, US, Belgium, and Korea. Before Sarsoli industries started, master- batches were imported from Korea with only 18-20 different colours being imported then by parent company Shivlila Polymers, which is the largest importer of plastic raw materials in Nigeria. Now, plastic colour master-batches are produced locally with over 1,000 different colours and shades for their clients and Sarsoli supplies companies such as Forte Oil, PZ, BAGCO, Dangote, KGM, Celplas Industries, Leoplast, Shonghai, Lotus Plastics, Mammuda Industries, Ammasco and many more with different coloured master-batches. Their state of the art machines and continuous improvement in technology and capacity keeps them at the cutting edge with their experts constantly working to keep quality as the priority and providing regular training programs to all the staff at all times. As the first of the kind in the country their standards are set along with SON specifications and they are active members in MAN, SON, LASEPA, NACCIMA, NEPC, LCCI, NAFDAC and many more reputable institutions. The brains and history behind Sarsoli industries emergence is interesting. Chandru Changrani is the Founder and Chairman while Jaiprakash Changrani is the managing director who before taking the reins of Sarsoli Industries in 2011, played a key role in setting up preforms and cap manufacturing for Prima Corporation in 2005 and within five years, it became the largest producers of performs and caps in Nigeria. Jai Changrani was also the director of Classic Beverages, the producers of “La Casera”, and his inputs helped make La Casera number one in PET bottle drinks. The winning streak is what Jai Changrani brings to Sarsoli, making sure clients are satisfied with quality services at competitive prices. Even though Sarsoli produces in Lagos, they have distribution centres with the availability of the product throughout Nigeria where any plastic industry can pick up even one bag.  Obinna Emelike