Nigeria is set to take part in a new innovative food and drinks trade show in Lagos which more than 150 retailers will have the opportunity to connect with suppliers, distributors and manufacturers, both local and international. According to the press statement made available to BusinessDay, Food and Beverage West Africa (FAB) launches on Jun 18th-20th at the Landmark Centre, Victoria Island. The organisers say the show has secured the backing of many businesses and trade associations which recognise the significant opportunities, the show will bring to food and drink retailers, restaurant owners and food distributors in Nigeria and West Africa. Adding that more than 5,000 visitors from the F&B industry are expected to attend the free to-attend three-day event and Just Food, the region’s leading provider of quality, global food equipment brands, is a Gold Sponsor of FAB West Africa. Tunde Ogunrinde, JustFood’s Chief Executive Officer, explained that the food and beverage industry is rapidly growing across West Africa. “We are supporting FAB because we want to continue to be part of the growth and this event provides the platform to meet all key stakeholders in one place.” “Other businesses partnering FAB include SPAR, the largest chain of hypermarket stores in Nigeria of which saw sales of €110,781,000 (N44.7 billion) in 2018, and NASCO, a leading export and wholesale company based in the UK,” he said. FoodPreneurs Hub, the online community inspiring and motivating food entrepreneurs, is another partner for the show. Its spokeswoman, Olushola Oladejo, says: “We are supporting FAB West Africa because it is giving food entrepreneurs like us a great opportunity to showcase our businesses to the world at the same time partner with international businesses. “The retailing sector in Nigeria is growing fast, due to Nigeria’s rapid urban developments and the country’s fast-growing middle class. This is a huge opportunity for retailers. Supermarkets are also increasing in their numbers across the country.” In addition to food and beverage businesses, several trade groups are partnering with the show, including REFSPAN (Restaurant and Food Services Proprietors Association of Nigeria), NASON (the National Association of Supermarket Owners of Nigeria), the Balogun Business Association, the Oke Arin Traders Association, Onitsha Main Markets Traders Union (OMMATU), Ogbaru Main Market Traders Association (OMMTA), Eziukwu Road Traders Association and the Association of Food Vendors in Nigeria (AFVN) REFSPAN is a group of major restaurants and food services operators in Nigeria, which includes leading companies such as Sweet Sensation, Mama Cass, and Chicken Republic among its membership. It is fully recognised by the Federal and State Government as well as by the public as the umbrella body of quick service restaurant (QSR) diners. Food and Beverage West Africa is organised by BtoB Events, which also launched the successful Beauty West Africa exhibition in Nigeria last November. Not only are they now launching the FAB event, BtoB is also launching the West Africa Automotive Show in Lagos later this year. BtoB Events’ Managing Director is Jamie Hill who has successfully been launching and running exhibitions in Nigeria for over five years and is keen to promote local businesses. “The exhibition will host a specific ‘Made in Nigeria’ SME zone, enabling local SMEs to benefit from this annual platform and showcase what they have to offer alongside the local and international power houses across the sector,” says Hill. “By offering local SME’s the opportunity to participate we hope to facilitate their growth in the market and work towards the long-term goal of increasing local production and exports from Nigeria across the region.”  ANTHONIA OBOKOH