 “Pastor Samson Farounbi has told an Idi-Ogungun Customary Court, Agodi, in Ibadan, that the small size of his manhood made his estranged wife to deny him sex for a long period. Farounbi disclosed this on Monday when testifying before the court on a case of divorce he instituted against Tope Farounbi.  He had requested the court to end their 19-year union on the grounds of unrest of mind, threat to life and lack of respect for his family. Narrating his ordeals, Farounbi said his wife, who was a fruit seller, used to return home at late hours every day and refused to have sex with him. “There was a day I challenged her why she always returned late and denying me sex. She confessed that the small size of my penis was responsible for keeping late outside and for refusing to have sex with me. She suggested to buy local herb for the treatment of my micro penis, which cost N5,000, but I priced it down to N4,000. I got myself treated with the Agbo (local herb), but she still felt reluctant to allow me have access to her body,” he narrated. The pastor further alleged that the defendant maltreated his mother when she was living with him and that the ill treatment forced his aged mother to relocate to Ilesha, where she died a few months later. He told the court that Tope used to curse every member of his family and always cursed his blood brothers whenever they visited him. “My lord, she is a devil, always fighting people, especially females that come to my church for prayer, accusing me of flirting with them. We have never stayed beyond two years in every house I rented since we married 19 years ago due to her stubbornness and troublesome character. The five children of our union lack home training and she always cursed me whenever I tried to correct any of the kids for doing wrong things. In fact, our first child has run away from home now and I cannot even locate his whereabouts. I urge the court to separate us so that I can have peace of mind to do my pastoral work,” he pleaded. In her defence, Tope denied all the allegations but urged the court to dissolve the marriage as requested by the plaintiff. She accused her husband of womanising, saying he never cared for her welfare but was in the habit of drinking alcohol. President of the court, Mr. Mukaila Balogun and the two court assessors — Messrs Wahab Popoola and Alao Ganiyu — in their unanimous decision dissolved the marriage.”  “No fewer than 16 people are feared dead following cult crises that broke out in two different local government areas of Rivers State, last Sunday. It was alleged that 14 people were killed by the said cultists at Kono Boue and Gbam Boue communities of Khana council, while two people were killed in Ishiodu village, Emohua community, Emohua council. It was also gathered that seven people were abducted when the bandits struck at Khana council, while many properties were also destroyed. However, there are conflicting reports on the number of deaths in the Khana incident. Whereas some reported 20, others said 14, while the Police claimed five people lost their lives. The clash in Khana is believed to be a reprisal attack from the Iceland cult over the killing of a notable member of their gang earlier. The Paramount Ruler of Kono Boue community in Khana council, HRH, Mene Taalor Tornwe, described the incident as shocking, adding that the cult boys were incited against him and other members of the community. Tornwe, while condemning the killings and burning of his palace and other buildings by the cultists, noted that he had carried out the instruction of the governor of the state to restore peace in the area, but regretted that some persons incited the cultists against him. Also, the Community Development Committee Chairman, Prince Christian Borlo-One, alleged that over 40 persons were feared killed, adding that some persons were beheaded and five abducted. He also called on the government and security agencies to urgently intervene so the community will not be totally deserted. Meanwhile, the Rivers State Police Command’s Public Relations Officer, DSP Nnamdi Omoni, said the Police are aware of the incidents, noting that two people died in Ishiodu village and five in the Khana incident.”  “Nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to test a man’s character, give him power.”  “Doctors, nurses lament poor pay, overwork in state hospitals”  “Floods: Lagos urges calm as heavy rains pound city.”  “The ladder of success is best climbed by stepping on the rungs of opportunity.”  “Inside Ibadan drug world” “Although there has been pervasive advocacy and onslaught by security agents to check hard drug peddling and abuse in Ibadan the capital of Oyo State, the menace rather than go away, appears to worsen, bulging into an ogre and digging a cesspool that daily claims and sucks more victims into its vortex of death, evil, bankruptcy, depression, despair and destruction.”  “We cut victims wrists, fingers, during operations” – Robbery suspects  “Why Lagos, Ondo, Niger, Benue, Imo, Cross-River, others must prepare for flooding.” – Alhaji Suleiman Adamu – Minister of Water Resources “All the thirty-six states of the Federation including the Federal Capital Territory are expected to experience different levels of flooding. I can say we have almost six hundred local government areas in Nigeria that could be under the threat of floods in 2019, going by our predictions. No person should build structures within the flood plains. People should clean their drainages.”  Bashorun J.K. Randle 