President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday in Abuja, assured the International Criminal Court (ICC) as much of Nigeria’s continued support to enable it fulfil its mandate. Buhari stated this when he received Nigerian-born President of the ICC, Judge Chile Eboe-Osuji at the State House, Abuja, in a closed door meeting. A statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said President Buhari used the opportunity to appealed to developed countries to take the ICC “more seriously in order to strengthen the rule of law and democracy.” According to him, “The ICC provides a moral strength for victims to receive justice against internal and external injustice.”
President Buhari also commended Judge Eboe-Osuji for the achievements of the ICC under his presidency.
Earlier, the President of the ICC had congratulated President Buhari on his re-election and successful inauguration for a second tenure. He lauded the Nigerian leader’s “strong and unambiguous statement in support of the rule of law” and for the Court and its principles during his visit to the headquarters of the ICC in The Hague last July. Judge Eboe-Osuji appealed to President Buhari to continue to support the ICC, and to urge African leaders whose countries have not ratified the Rome Statute which established the Court to do the needful.
This is just as President is expected to preside over a meeting of Security Council of the Economic Community of West African States ECOWAS, holding at the Transcorp Hilton Abuja, late Friday afternoon. The Meeting according to BusinessDay Villa sources is coming ahead of the meeting of ECOWAS heads of states and governments taking place in Abuja on Saturday.
Issues of small arms proliferation, cross border crimes and herdsmen movements are expected to dominate discussions. Nigeria had been at the receiving end of the high rate of insecurity in the region as the Boko Haram induced insurgency has continued in the North Eastern region despite efforts to tackle them.
End