Getty Images and APO Group have announced a partnership that will see it help promote integrated text, photo and video solutions to organisations operating across Africa and the Middle East. At an official signing ceremony in London, the two companies disclosed that the partnership will combine Getty Images’ capabilities cutting across the visual content world, servicing the media, corporate and advertising sectors and APO Group’s wide media relations in Africa and the Middle East to help organisations connect their compelling stories with new audiences. Getty Images services nearly one million customers in almost every country of the world while APO Group global advisory services allow organisations from all over the world to harness the potential of media by developing strategic communications plans that help to build positive connections with key audiences. In a statement BusinessDay received, Lee Martin, Senior Vice President, Global Strategic Development at Getty Images, said APO Group has deep knowledge and expertise of corporations and media across the regions. “This partnership further demonstrates our commitment to working with best-in-class organisations all over the world to provide innovative and integrated communication and media relations solutions to our corporate customers,” Lionel Reina, CEO of APO Group said. He noted further that the combined multi-domestic services reflects an increasing demand from corporations to work with a limited number of suppliers in order to communicate more efficiently about their African and Middle Eastern activities. The statement also disclosed that the partnership unites APO Group and Getty Images in their passion for sport. APO Group is the main official sponsor of World Rugby’s African association, Rugby Africa, while Getty Images is the official photographer or photographic partner to over 80 of the world’s leading sports governing bodies, leagues, and clubs, including the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), the International Olympic Committee (IOC). National Basketball Association (NBA), Union of European Football Associations (UEFA), National Hockey League, NASCAR, Professional Golfers Association (PGA), Manchester United, Borussia Dortmund, FC Bayern Munich, Cricket Australia and New Zealand Rugby Union. “We look forward to an exciting collaboration that will help us break new ground in untapped markets that are full of potential and opportunities,” Martin said. 