The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) through its E-WASH programme on Thursday said it would provide 500,000 families in six states of the country with clean and potable water by 2022. The Advocacy and Strategic Communication Adviser of Effective water Sanitation and Hygiene Services (E-WASH) programme, Abdulsalam Badamasi, disclosed this at a three-day media roundtable  organised by USAID in conjunction with Taraba Water Supply Agency  for journalists in Jalingo. According to him, E -WASH is a four-year intervention in Imo, Sokoto, Taraba, Abia, Niger and Delta states (ISTAND) from 2018 to 2022. Badamasi noted that partnership with the media became imperative following the poor performance of the 37 Water Boards across Nigeria, saying the average performance of the water boards in the country was 30 per cent. He noted that the media had a key role to play in changing the situation by giving accurate reports and engagement of critical stakeholders in the water sector. “The partnership with journalists is key at this point because Nigeria has 37 water boards and as I speak with you, only few Nigerians have access to potable water. “The average performance of all the water boards in the country is not more than 30 percent, which is very worrisome given the fact that about 85 per cent of diseases in the country are water-related,” he said. “And even the water boards that we have across the thirty six states of the federation, no state accords adequate priority to the water boards to ensure that they function properly” he explained. He noted that the Water Sanitation Hygiene (E-WASH) programme is a Technical Assistance Support from the USAID for four years (2018-2022). Badamasi explained that the objective of the programme was to create professionally managed and commercially oriented State Water Supply Agencies, as well as improve their financial and operational viability. In her presentation, one of the facilitators, Hauwa Danchadi, said that lack of access to water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) affects women and girls more, due to both biological and cultural factors. Danchadi also noted that lack of access to WASH at home and the school had a negative impact on children’s education, particularly for girls, hence the need for gender inclusion in WASH reporting.