For low income earners who have the lofty dream of owning their own land without having to break banks, Maplewoods at Ibeju-lekki is their next destination.
The Maplewoods advantage highlights the importance of quality and natural living within a well-deﬁned perimeter. A place where expectations are turned into reality.
The region which is attracting major investors and developers is poised for great rental returns and capital appreciation.
The landed property comes in different sizes: the 300Sqm goes for a promo price of N350,000 & 600Sqm is also selling at a promo price of N650,000 respectively with a 12 months payment plan available with an unbeatable opportunity to get 1 Plot FREE, when you buy 5Plots.
According to Mr. Oluwatobi Osonuga, the Managing Director of Chateau Royal Real Estate Limited, the brain behind the project, “Maplewoods is located in robust communities comprising; residences, grocery stores, educational facilities, recreational facilities, hair and body parlor, surrounded by beautiful shrubs and trees, translating into a friendly environment.”
Situated in the heart of Ibeju-lekki, the soon to be sorted after suburb, investment in Maplewoods in no due time would be a gold mine as the area harbors the beautifully conceptualized resorts, the La campagne Tropican Beach Resort.
The facts about this community are not only intimidating but also compelling, especially for savvy and patient investors with long term view of the property market.
Today, Ibeju-Lekki is the fastest developing corridor in Nigeria and, in fact, Africa. It is an ideal investment destination for real estate investors and the future of Lagos. The reason for this is simple and not far-fetched.
“I will recommend this area to any of my relatives and savvy investors anytime any day,” Dr Freeman Osonuga, Managing Director of Adloyal Business Network the strategic partners of Maplewoods had mentioned.
This community is where the Lekki Free Trade Zone (LFTZ), Lekki Deep Seaport, Dangote Refinery and Petrochemical Industry, Dangote Fertilizer Plant, International (Cargo) Airport, Lekki International Golf Course, Pan Atlantic University, Eleganza Industries are being developed.
Over 1,000 staff of Dangote Refinery have been provided accommodation by developers, while others are still providing within and outside the zone. Over 8,000 engineers will be engaged by Dangote Refinery and the satisfaction of their housing needs is a clear opportunity for both public and private investors.
Thus, with an initial deposit of N100,000 a potential land owner can be sure of securing a ticket to tap into the 12 months payment plan available at Maplewoods with the promo valid till June 30th,2019.
Commenting on the area were the property is located, Mr. Osonuga said “Maplewoods are of superior quality, ranging from paved roads, covered drainages, pedestrian walkways, lush greenery, modern electrification with street lights and uncompromising security details. It is an addition of a fresh identity to the beautiful city of Lagos.” For more information
Contact: 08170000720, 08170000661
info@chateauroyalng.com
www.chateauroyalng.com