Before 2019, Nigerian states have shown a penchant attitude in disclosing to the general public the financial position of their states as well as its planned expenditure in the budget. But now, these states are the once chasing after the public to get their budget noticed. The tide turned around after the World Bank proposed a developmental support programme of over $750 million for states in Nigeria but tied the disbursement of these funds to each of these 36 states if and only if their financial and planned budgetary allocations are disclosed to the public in which they have sworn to govern. The programme will see the Washington-based developmental bank disburse as much as $600,000 in loans to each of the 36 states as long as they fulfil two criteria, according to Gabriel Okeowo, principal lead at BudgIT, civic organisation driven to make the Nigerian budget and public data more understandable and accessible across every literacy span. The first criteria given by the bank was that each of the states must have their budgetary expenditure disclosed to the public domain on or before end of February while the second mandate these states to develop a citizen version of their budget on or before the last day in April 2019. “This act by the World Bank helped in turning the scene away from the traditional way where we had to run to them to get their budget through any means necessary or we had to develop the citizens budget by ourselves to an arrangement that is putting the responsibility back to these state government who were originally supposed to shoulder such responsibilities,” Okeowo said in a forum organised by IE university, aimed at promoting African innovation solutions to meet global challenges. Before the Washington-based bank enacted the stringent measures restricting states that doesn’t from have their budget disclosed in the public domain from assessing its developmental financing, only 10 out the 36 states in the federation had their budgets disclosed, according to Okeowo, however with the reform, about 25 states have so far released their and 21 of them, submitted their citizens budget as at the end of April 2019, as stipulated by the bank. Many Nigerian states overtime do not make known to the public the financial position of the states in which they govern and even when they do, it might be outdated. This is contrary to what the law provides in section 125, subsection (2) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria which stipulates that “the public accounts of a State and of all offices and courts of the State shall be audited by the Auditor-General for the State who shall submit his reports to the House of Assembly of the State”. Analysts say the deliberate actions by the state to publish its financial statement questions the integrity of the state’s Auditor-General and cast doubt on the accountability these governors swore to the people they govern to uphold.