Report in Spain says Barcelona have reached a verbal agreement with Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) playmaker Neymar over his return to Camp Nou – two years after the Brazilian left for a world record fee. Neymar is set to earn £400,000-a-week in a 5-year and for that deal to happen, Neymar will take a significant drop in salary, from €36.8million per season (second highest in world football) to €24million, a €12million reduction as was his contract before leaving. Sport journalist Albert Masnou also claims that due to Neymar’s desire to return, he did not even try to negotiate the amount, clear that Barcelona president Josep Maria Bartomeu was at his upper limit. He also removed his legal case against the club owing him money. Now all that is left to do, the paper says, is for the clubs to come to an agreement on an appropriate transfer fee for the player. As previously reported by Le Parisien, the Ligue 1 side are looking to make a profit on the man they plucked away from Barça, and are demanding 300 million euros. Although in simple terms this is likely a price too high to pay, other conditions – for example including players in part exchange – could allow the two football powerhouses to find a satisfactory middle ground. If not, Sport confirm, Real Madrid would be the only other option potentially available to him. For Neymar’s part, money has been put as a lesser priority than achieving greatness, following a period in France that did little for his reputation. If this move becomes a reality, he will have a chance to restore his name as one of football’s very best. Neymar still has three years left on his current deal, and PSG want to recoup at least as much as they doled out for the forward. These negotiations will be made harder by the fact that the clubs’ relationship has deteriorated since 2017, with all the work being done by intermediaries as it stands. Again, considering how Naymar joined Barcelona in 2013 from Santos for an undisclosed fee, when it was reported that Real Madrid had finalised arrangement to bring him to Santiago Bernabéu. But the football world was shocked to hear the news that Neymar opted for Barcelona. In 2017, the 27 years old dumped Spanish giant to sign for French football outfit PSG for a record €220 million, ending his four years ‘marriage’ with Barcelona. Now, report has it that Neymar has agreed to make a return to Barcelona with a whooping €12 pay reduction. But the question is; will Neymar’s loyalty still remain with Barcelona? What if another club offers him more money? Too early for Barcelona fans to rejoice or celebrate the news of Neymar’s return as the player seems to be loyal to Money.  Anthony Nlebem