Preparations are well underway in Maputo ahead of the 12th U.S.-Africa Business Summit which will host African leaders, over 1,000 United States and African private sector executives, international investors, senior government officials and multilateral stakeholders. The Summit being organised by Corporate Council on Africa and the Government of Mozambique under the theme, “Advancing a Resilient and Sustainable U.S.-Africa Partnership” is scheduled to hold between June 18 and 21, 2019 in Maputo, Mozambique capital. As contained in a mailed note to BusinessDay from the organisers, H.E. Filipe Nyusi, President of the Republic of Mozambique will open the Summit which will be attended by some other African Heads of State including; Mswati III, Kingdom of Eswatini; H.E. Paul Kagame, President, Republic of Rwanda; H.E. Hage Geingob, President, Republic of Namibia. Also confirmed to attend include; H.E. Uhuru Kenyatta, President, Republic of Kenya; H.E. José Mário Vaz, President, Republic of Guinea-Bissau; H.E. Peter Mutharika, President, Republic of Malawi; H.E. Edgar Lungu, President, Republic of Zambia; H.E. Mokgweetsi Masisi, President, Republic of Botswana; Hon. Dr Ruhakana Rugunda, Prime Minister, Republic of Uganda; H.E Emmerson Mnangagwa, President, Zimbabwe; H.E Teodoro Mbasogo, as well as President, Equatorial Guinea. Nigerian business leaders like Africa’s richest businessman, Aliko Dangote; Jim Ovia, among others have been invited as key note speakers. President Muhammadu Buhari, President of Nigeria has also been invited to participate at the summit. The Summit will provide a platform for U.S. and African business and government leaders to engage on key sectors including agribusiness, energy, health, infrastructure, ICT, finance and more. Private sector and government decision makers will be able to network, meet potential
business partners and explore new business opportunities. Delegates will also be encouraged to help shape effective U.S.-Africa trade and investment policies. The summit is coming against the backdrop of a renewed commitment by the U.S. administration and African governments to develop business-friendly initiatives and policies that foster greater
economic engagement since the last U.S.-Africa Business Summit in 2017. “This month’s Summit is specifically designed to facilitate and elevate business-to-business and business-to-government engagement,” according to the organisers.
“The Maputo event will address today’s most important challenges to investors in Africa by facilitating high-level roundtables, sector-focused discussions, as well as private meetings. Besides country forums discussing doing business in Africa, there will be countless opportunities to meet new business partners. CCA’s U.S.-Africa Business Summit is regarded as one of the essential conferences on doing business and investing in Africa. The 2019 Summit is proudly sponsored by leading global businesses and organizations including Anadarko Petroleum Corporation; Chevron Corporation; Exxon Mobil Corporation; GK Investment Holding Group; Absa Group Ltd; Acrow
Bridge; AllAfrica Global Media; AGCO Corporation; The Boeing Company;
Gilead Sciences; Pfizer Inc; Sasol Ltd; VISA Inc.; Caterpillar Inc; Citi; Lockheed Martin International; P&G; Pan African Capital Group LLC; Standard Bank; Symbion Power; Universal Leaf; Afro Tourism West Africa Ltd; AGRA; Barloworld Equipment (Pty) Ltd; Covington & Burling LLP; DAI; Development Finance International LLC; General Electric Company (GE); Good Governance Africa; Rabin Martin; Philip Morris International, Inc; and Ethiopian Airlines.
CCA’s West Africa Director Ekenem Isichei during a recent interview spoke about the great opportunities the summit provides for business linkages, sector opportunities, doing business in country sessions across different sectors with the Heads of state which will ultimately
lead to increased foreign direct investment, great public private opportunities and enable the ease of doing business domestically and across borders. As indicated by the organisers, interested participants can visit www.USAfricaBizSummit.com for registration.  Onyinye Nwachukwu, Abuja