Governors from the Southwest geo-political zone rose from a security summit under the auspices of Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) Commission, Tuesday, vowing to protect the region against invasion by armed bandits. The governors also renewed the call for the immediate introduction of state police, as a measure, among others to tackle rising security challenges in the region and across the country. In attendance at the meeting which held in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, were Governors Sanwo-Olu, (Lagos); Seyi Makinde, (Oyo); Dapo Abiodun, (Ogun); Adegboyega Oyetola, (Osun); Rotimi Akeredolu, (Ondo); and Kayode Fayemi, of Ekiti. At the summit, which attracted stakeholders, including security experts, the governors resolved to end what they described as unholy invasion of the region by armed bandits suspected to be from other tribes in the country, thereby causing security breach and creating unnecessary tension in the relatively peaceful zone. The governors unanimously agreed to the creation of state police so as to confront the challenge head on, listing the benefits inherent in having it. Specifically, governor of Lagos State, Sanwo-Olu of Lagos, said there was the need for advocacy even as he insisted that state police must be considered to complement the effort of the federal police in all states of the federation. “State police is the way to go. This would give the chief security officers in each of the states the opportunity to direct their affairs and make them accountable instead of waiting for federal directives before major actions could be taken on incidents of banditry, cultism and other heinous crimes. Controlling one’s police at the state level would help us achieve unhindered and accelerated response to any criminal activities recorded within our communities,” Sanwo-Olu said. According to him, the importance of security in human existence cannot be underestimated which means security is paramount to the existence of all human beings and no meaningful development could be recorded in the absence of security. Sanwo-Olu urged all states governors in the zone and stakeholders alike to put all machinery in motion to find a permanent solution to the security lapses, adding that we should all speak with one voice and remove politics so as to put a permanent stop to the incessant incursions on our land. The governor maintained that no development could be achieved in the absence of security. According to him, the issue discussed at the meeting coincides with the deliberations of the governors during a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari and at the Governors Forum held last week in Abuja. He, however, suggested deep and consistent advocacy among stakeholders even as he called on people from the region to live together and embrace unity as a way to sustain security and curb invasion. Chairman, Southwest Governors Forum, Rotimi Akeredolu, while declaring open the summit, reiterated that protection of lives of residents and people of southwest was paramount to all the governors, hence their support for the creation of state police. He said the meeting was part of the DAWN Commission’s effort at creating engagement and discourse for finding a lasting solution to the security challenges in the south west.  JOSHUA BASSEY