Students undergoing various programmes at the Federal University of Wukari, Taraba State have called on the Federal Government to relocate the institution to a safer place for the safety of both the students and members of staff. This is coming at the pick of the crisis between the Jukun/Tiv where no day passes without losing a life, courtesy of militias believed by many to be Jukuns. The worry of the students is the inability of the government to tackle the crisis lingering since the 2019 general elections. Most of the students who spoke with our correspondent on ground of anonymity attribute the crisis to the inability of the state government to state clearly it position as the crisis lingers. They complain that since months of the bloodbath the governor has not visited Wukari nor make a statement condemning the crisis. This they believe the Taraba State government has different motive. The students believe that leaving the university in Wukari while the crisis continues will cut short the hope of many to acquire Western Education. “We want the Federal Government to relocate the institution for our safety and that of the staff. The crisis started between Tiv and Jukum, but today militias mount the Federal Highway linking Benue, Wukari and Yola slaughtering people indiscriminately. In the past three days, I have read in the news that they have killed 12. “Personally, I think the Taraba State government is not concern about what is happening, because the governor has not visited the crisis area or condemn it since the crisis started,” he states. A final year student says, “I may not go back to that school if the crisis continues, I have already told my parents. You can’t even go to the market freely. Sir, I don’t think we are save.” The Taraba State governor, Darius Dickson Ishaku, believes only the creation of state police will put to an end to the crisis that engulfed some local governments in the state. Ishaku, while declaring open the induction/orientation of the members elect of the ninth Assembly, said, “If I have state police under my control I would have stop that rubbish.” The state police command is relentless in making sure that the crisis comes to an end. The spokesperson of the command, DSP David Misal, told newsmen in Jalingo the Taraba State capital, that armed policemen had been deployed to Wukari and other troubled areas to avert the crisis.