The ruling All Progressives Congress, APC at the weekend blasted the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP over allegations of infighting in the party about appointments into cabinet positions. President Muhammadu Buhari is yet to appoint Ministers and Advisers who will form his cabinet after one month into his second tenure. Lanre Issa-Onilu, APC National Publicity Secretary Saturday night said, PDP’s allegation of ‘infighting’ within the APC and the Presidency over appointments is the latest of shameful interventions of PDP in the nation’s affairs. Issa-Onilu in a statement argued that, judging by the latest antics and laughable allegations of the PDP, it is now clear that the rejected party has again resumed its idle chatter and specious remarks and questioned how long it will take PDP to learn proper opposition politics. He called on the PDP to do better as opposition by engaging APC on issues of good governance and matters that would better the lives of the people, saying this is the least Nigerians expect from the main opposition party. According to the APC Spokesman, “while the APC does not owe the PDP any explanation of the modalities for appointments, we assure Nigerians that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration would always appoint deserving individuals who share our progressive ideals and Change Agenda into positions. “The party that was sent into a state of shock following the outcome of the National Assembly election is now accusing APC of infighting. The accusation is coming from the PDP that failed to rally its members to support its own candidates for principal offices at the National Assembly. “Perhaps, to the delusional PDP, it is a sign of division within our rank to successfully mobilize our members behind our candidates for the National Assembly election. In other words, PDP had proved ultimate unity within its rank with several of its members disregarding the directive to vote for its adopted candidates. Here you have a party wallowing in denial. “As contained in PDP’s latest statement, odious practices like looting, booty sharing and power-grabbing are not practices that the APC wishes to continue from the wasted PDP years. Nigerians voted against these devious practices of PDP in 2015 and 2019 and opted for Change, which APC represents”.  James Kwen, Abuja