There will be an overhaul of the security architecture of Lagos, the state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said on Monday after an emergency meeting with heads of security agencies in the state. The aim, according to Sanwo-Olu, is to address emerging security challenges facing the state, noting that re-organisation of the state’s security template was necessary in order to make the state safe for business and living. Thegovernor, who briefed State-House journalists at the end of the meeting alongside commanders of security formations, said security agencies had been placed on alert ahead of the planned overhaul. He added that the reform would lead to a new engagement for security operatives and help in achieving efficiency in combating crimes. “Issues bordering on contemporary security challenges, including cultism, kidnapping, armed robbery, pipeline vandalism and indiscriminate driving against traffic were at the top of discussion. All our security formations have been briefed and they are well situated and well informed at keeping Lagos safe and secured.” The governor called for the cooperation all residents when the security plan is rolled out, noting: “Making Lagos safe is our daily responsibility and all residents must also take up the challenge. I assure that we would begin to see a new deal in security which will further improve safety of lives and property” Sanwo-Olu added that the security overhaul would also focus on activities of motorcycle riders and road regulations. He stressed that his government would embark on advocacy on the existing restriction laws for motorcycles. “That’s one of the things we have agreed to do. So, we will be embarking on a lot of advocacy on all media of communications to tell people about traffic and restriction laws. We don’t want to be making arrest without reminding ourselves of the right things to do and how to do it. It is when we have done that and some of us refuse to be compliant that the full wrath of the law would be applied.”  JOSHUA BASSEY