Members of the Edo State House of Assembly on Monday sat under tight security to swear in two other members-elect. The house, which was inaugurated at 10 pm last Monday with only nine members present out of the 24 members is still a subject of controversy among the leaders of All Progressives Congress in the state. The house had after the inauguration last week adjoined to July 17, 2019 to enable other members complete the necessary documentations. But the leadership of the house, however, yesterday cut short its adjournment and reconvened under tight security to swear in two members-elect and also elect principal officers. The two members-elect that subscribed to the relevant oath for the swearing-in are Emmanuel Okoduwa, Esan North-East 1 constituency and Sunday Ojezele, Esan South-East constituency, respectively. The two members-elect were sworn-in by the Clerk of the House, Yahaya Audu Omogbai. The lawmakers so far sworn in are now eleven. Those elected as principal officers of the house are, Roland Asoro (Orhionmwon 11), House Leader, Marcus Onobun (Esan West) as deputy leader, Henry Okhuarobo (Ikpoba Okha) as chief whip while Nosayaba Okunbor became the Principal Officer Council (POC). The speaker of the house, Frank Okiye, said the principal officers were elected in line with the decision of the state leadership of the party in a letter sent to the speaker. Lawmakers earlier sworn- in are Frank Okiye (North-East) 1, elected as speaker, Yekini Idaiye (Akoko-Edo) 1, as deputy speaker, Roland Asoro (Orhionmwon 11), Nosa Okunbor (Orhionmwon 1), Henry Okhuarobo (Ikpoba Okha), Uyi Ekhosuehi (Oredo East), Marcus Onobun ( Esan West), Ephraim Anehbosele (Igueben) and Eric Okaka, Owan East constituency. At the plenary sitting, yesterday only nine members were present including the speaker while Eric Okaka was absent. The house, however adjourned to July 17, 2019. The house witnessed heavy presence of anti-riot mobile policemen and political thugs who took over the premises of the assembly. The security and thugs were also stationed at strategy positions within the house premises.  IDRIS UMAR MOMOH & CHURCHILL OKORO, BENIN