Since its launch in 2014, DigifyPro has gone from strength to strength and won a number of awards along the way.  The 8-week intensive digital marketing bootcamp, which started in Johannesburg over five years ago has impacted many young people by kick-starting over 200 careers in the digital world.  DigifyPro isn’t just a training program, it’s also about ensuring that the youth get the critical skills needed within the digital economy. Program Director of DigifyPro NG, Florence Olumodimu speaks on the significance of a program like this in Nigeria – “Training our young people to work in a digital space is vital to the growth of the economy and ensuring we have a highly skilled workforce that is able to compete internationally. Feedback from the participants of DigifyPro Cohort 1.0 and a Cohort 2.0 has been positive and is proof that this initiative is a much-needed one for young graduates, the industry and Nigeria as a whole,” she said.  In the intensive 8-week bootcamp supported by Facebook, trainees learn about the full spectrum of digital marketing from SEO to content marketing. They are also given exposure to the industry with weekly live briefs set by agencies, where trainees are able to conceptualise campaigns and show off their talents to prospective employers. Most importantly, in the 8 weeks they are given job readiness skills to ensure that they are able to thrive in the workplace and offer value to their employers.  Adeola Adenipekun, a DigifyPro NG alumni describes her time at DigifyPro as extremely valuable. “Everything I learnt at DigifyPro, I learnt for free, but it was as though I had paid a million bucks for it. It was an opportunity like no other. I am grateful for where it has helped me reach and I am hopeful for even greater heights. [I’d like to give] a big thank you to the Digify NG Trainers, Industry Guest Speakers, Digify Africa and Facebook for this beautiful initiative to equip and empower youths in Nigeria. The world will hear of us and it is because of you.”  Past participants of DigifyPro NG have had the priviledge of working at some of the biggest agencies in Nigeria  such as Fuel Communications, Leo Burnett Lagos, DigitxPlus, IProspect, Nitro121, Isobar, Business School Netherlands Nigeria, X3M Ideas, Teras Doxas, WebCoupers, QVT Media, BrandEye Media, Etu-Odi Communications, Isobar, AMNET, DKT Nigeria, BlueBird Communications, to mention a few.  While some other companies have taken part by way of sending guest speakers, agencies such Vyrus Digital, SO&U, SOULCOMMS, Gain Recruitment, Nostalgia media hosted the cohort on Agency Tours or giving Live Briefs during the Bootcamp.   “Unlike many similar initiatives, Digify is recruiting people with a real chance of success and giving them the tools and motivation they need to succeed in the workplace,” said  Jarred Cinman, the CEO of leading South African agency, Native VML  As a testament of the quality of the programme, two teams from the Digify Pro 2.0 emerged as runner up (2nd place) and 1st place winners at the AAAN YoungLAIFers Competition (Lagos Advertising and  Ideas Festival) which took place at the end of December 2018. The competition tested their ability to ideate and create award-winning campaigns.   In South Africa, Digify Africa bagged another award. As a result of the initiative to help young people integrate into the digital economy through Digify Pro, Digify Africa received its second award for the Best Contribution to Transformation in the Digital Industry from IAB SA.  DigifyNG has recently kicked of its 3rd Cohort with 20 of the best candidates for DigifyPro 3.0 in Lagos. With that, we are also looking for agencies and workplaces to take part in DigifyPro 3.0.  Agencies can be part of this award-winning programme by volunteering to speak and motivate trainees, open their agency for a visit from the cohort or most importantly, offer the trainees a once in a lifetime opportunity to work at their agency or workplace.  Don’t miss out, take part in this programme supported by Facebook.  Interested Agencies and Corporate Organizations should contact the Program Director to join us on the journey of nurturing Africa’s next generation digital talent. Florence.Olumodimu@digifyafrica.com  A special thank you to  Fuel Communications, Leo Burnett Lagos, DigitxPlus, IProspect, Nitro121, Isobar, Business School Netherlands Nigeria, X3M Ideas, Teras Doxas, WebCoupers, QVT Media, BrandEye Media, Etu-Odi Communications, Isobar, AMNET, DKT Nigeria, BlueBird Communications,  Vyrus Digital, SO&U, SOULCOMMS, Gain Recruitment, Nostalgia media, Life Developers Network,  Automatic Pallet, Surfweb who have all supported Digify Pro. We encourage organizations interested in recruiting our DigifyPro Graduates to contact @DigifyNG.