In a bid to promote organic farming in the country to help protect Nigeria’s ecosystem as well as promote healthy living for citizens, Xtralarge Farms has launched Agritech City to optimise farmers’ production efficiencies in growing food organically. The Agritech City which was unveiled alongside the Xtratoken and wonder meals by Seyi Davids, chief executive officer of Xtralarge Farms, in Lagos recently will be established on 3,000 acres of land in Ogun state. Davids, at the unveiling said that the introduction of the digital currency was meant for exchange of goods and services within the Agritech City. “Providing strong consumer base for food items is one of the major objectives of Xtralarge Farms. To do this, we want to provide our customers with healthier foods and organic farming is the way to go,” Davids said. “We grow our food organically without the use of any chemicals. By this we want to use food to treat alignment,” he said. “We train farmers on modern farming methods to carry out their farming activities in a productive, professional and profitable way’’. He stated that there was need for Nigerians to adopt organic living, stressing that eating organic food would improve the health of human, animals and their environment,. Organic farming would help to keep the country’s biodiversity, he added. He noted that exposing human beings to chemicals in food affects their genes and in turn the body system, adding that to enhance a sustainable healthy ecosystem in the country, there was need for reorientation for people to have the understanding and knowhow for them to impact on their environment. Speaking on the Agritech City, he said that the farm would harbour a farming environment in the midst of world-class luxury, beauty comfort hospitality and serenity. He added that a University and schools, travel and tours, homes and properties, natural health centre and micro-finance bank, a research institute, among others would be facilities built within the city. Also, speaking on the digital currency – Xtratoken, he said that the entire Xtralarge group referred to it as Generation Next and noted that it is the currency to be spent within the Agritech City. “The city has come with a change of apparel for agriculture in Nigeria and Africa as a whole. A farmer must be able to live well, be successful, live a dignified life and be respected in the society. On the xtralarge wonder meal, he said it was a natural blend of local rice and plantain flour, rich in fibre, thereby aiding bowel movement and avoiding constipation. “The raw and unpolished nature of the local rice in it combined with the high fibre contents of plantain flour makes it a working wonder for your health,” he said. He added that the food aids weight loss for people who wish to watch their weight since the food is not retained in the body for a long period of time.  Josephine Okojie