With a current economic impact of $3 billion (N1 trillion), market trends show an increase in counterfeiting, even as enforcement scores significant wins. Businesses are at more risk of being sold counterfeit print supplies than ever before, according to a recent HP commissioned study by Harris Interactive. Already costing the global economy $3 billion(N1 trillion) per year according to the Imaging Supplies Coalition, the growing risk of fakes is driven by an increasingly broad supplier ecosystem, lack of certainty by buyers that their purchases are genuine, and a lack of awareness of the risks of purchasing counterfeit goods. According to Glenn Jones, Director Global Anti-Counterfeit Programme, HP “Every one of the key market indicators we monitor show a significant increase in the risk of counterfeit print supplies,” “For companies like HP, counterfeits undermine decades of focused research and testing aimed at creating superior ink and toner and reliable, high-quality cartridges for our customers.
For users, fakes cause a significant increase in print failures, low page yield; poor print quality, leaks and clogs, in addition to voiding hardware warranties.” According to Harris Interactive surveys, the past four years have shown a 30 percent plus drop in companies working with a trusted, primary supplier, and a 27 percent increase in companies buying purely on availability. With a broader, less trusted supplier network, SMEs are losing the ability to discern the authenticity of their cartridges with absolute confidence. All regions heavily affected by counterfeiting, in particular the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Africa, with almost three quarters of businesses surveyed feeling confident their purchases were genuine. While the market trends are concerning, HP and other Print OEMs are continuing their significant efforts to battle this issue by actively engaging with local authorities. Across EMEA over the last five years, approximately 12 million counterfeits and components have been seized by local authorities, supported by HP. HP has conducted over 4,500 inspections of reseller stock and suspicious deliveries for customers. Through HP’s Anti-Counterfeiting and Fraud (ACF) Programme, the company also actively educates its customers and partners to be vigilant against fake printing supplies.  Jonathan Aderoju