Nigerian risk managers are engaging members and other stakeholders on leveraging technological innovation for effective service delivery.
The importance of risk management as a viable solution to the prevalent issues in the Nigerian economy has become more pronounced and the role of technological innovation is of paramount importance in this regard. It is on this premise that Risk Management Association of Nigeria (RIMAN) is organising her 19th Annual International Conference/Training with the theme: Economic Recovery and Development: Leveraging Technological Innovation. The event is scheduled to take place from June 13 – 14, 2019, in Lagos.
It has become imperative to leverage technological innovation to improve the design and enforcement of public policies. With the evolution of modern technologies across the globe, the government and the private sector must leverage new technologies to boost the Nigerian economy. Historically, the level of technological application has been identified as closely related to economic progress and development. Nigeria like most emerging economies is challenged with the task of sustainable development. Subject matter experts and professionals have been assembled to deliver expert discussions at this conference, with Doyin Salami as the keynote speaker. The conference is the largest gathering of risk professionals in Nigeria and it will also focus on how innovative technologies are reshaping the global economic landscape, by improving speed and ease of communication and interaction among the various economic sectors.
“It is our expectation therefore that the output of this conference would not only benefit all participants but would assist both public and private sector operators make more informed decisions,” the organisation said in a statement. RIMAN conference is an annual tradition that brings together representatives of the public and private sectors to discuss topical issues in risk management, and also a platform for various stakeholders to share ideas and knowledge, which would help to highlight salient issues with a view to proffering workable solutions.
Risk management practitioners and persons involved in risk related activities or wish to contribute to best practice risk management as well as the general public are welcome to attend the conference.