In line with the current economic thinking in the country, AgroNigeria, Nigeria’s leading agribusiness online portal, says it plans to host the third edition of the Feed Nigeria Summit and agricultural awards to promote productivity in the sector and enhance economic growth. The theme ‘Unlocking Prosperity through Partnership,’ will focus on the narratives critical for unleashing the job creation potentials of the Nigerian agricultural sector, the organisers said. According to AgroNigeria, the summit is a key step towards facilitating the engagement of the private sector, as well as all critical stakeholders in the agric sector to develop home- grown solutions to challenges confronting the country’s agriculture. “We do not just need partnership on single front but on every front between the government and the private sector, private and private, small players and big players as well as players and communities to drive this change we want to see in the agric sector,” Richard-Mark Mbaram, CEO, AgroNigeria and director general of the Food Nigeria Summit 2019 Secretariat, said at a press briefing. “If we being to drive collaborations that will address critical issues around infrastructures, smuggling and capacity building for farmers among others, we would begin to make headway in the sector,” Mbaram said. He stated that the country would not see economic development if agriculture does not take the flight to deliver the great potentials it has. Speaking also during the press conference, Angela Eni, associate professor, Covenant University, said that the summit would bring stakeholders in the sector together to chart a way forward for the sector and look at solutions to build partnerships that scale. “The discourse we are holding at the summit does not know boarders. We need to seek collaborations to manage issues that affect prosperity of our farmers,” Eni who is also the director, West African Virus Epidemiology (WAVE) Project – Covenant University Hub, said. Prof Eustace Iyayi, executive secretary of the Nigerian Institute of Animal Science (NIAS), said that the Feed Nigeria Summit (FNS) is Nigeria’s flagship agricultural sector convocation and has, over the years, earned its position as a unique platform which addresses the critical issues concerning the nation’s agro-economy. Iyayi appreciated AgroNigeria for putting together stakeholder to discuss issues that would drive growth in the sector. The summit is schedule to hold on the 27th –28th of August, 2019 at the Sheraton Hotels in Abuja. Since its inception, the Feed Nigeria Summit has been consistent in providing an unparalleled platform for stakeholder tracking and enhancement of Nigeria’s efforts at developing a virile agricultural economy.  Josephine Okojie