More than any other group, Uber, Taxify and drivers on cab-hailing platforms are known to frequently use Google maps, which is understandable considering the nature of their job. Unlike the conventional taxi drivers with ‘ancient knowledge’ of all the nooks and crannies of cities such as Lagos, a leveller is needed to find one’s way around. Having access to the map is perhaps such a good idea when one considers that the longer the trip, which may have been avoidable, the more one will have to pay. For the average commuter in Lagos, using the map is not so much about finding a place, but avoiding traffic and getting there in record time. However, in between using it to get to a place, there is so much one can do on Google maps. It could also be the perfect adventure/vacation companion, a topic to be discussed in a subsequent article. The question then is; what else is there to do on Google Maps besides moving straight from point A to B. Add detours to your route: On your way to that job interview or important business meeting, it turns out you forgot to make copies of a piece of document and turning back is not quite an option. While in navigation mode, you can search for business centres along your route, so you can find the nearest place and get back on the road as quickly as possible. The same applies to finding ATMs along your route, or even locating gift stores when on your way to a birthday party, but turns out you have forgotten to buy a gift. Panicking is not necessary as Google maps can help one get whatever is needed and continue the journey; picking out fastest routes and shortest times. Wheelchair accessible routes: Not many people pay attention to this, but wheelchair accessible transit routes is a big deal, as it makes getting around easier for those with mobility needs. Imagine picking out a restaurant to have lunch or dinner, arriving at the venue only to find out there is no provision for one of the guests with limited mobility to enter the facility. Using Google Maps, you can specifically find venues with wheelchair accessible transit routes, so that any awkward experience is avoided. Offline maps: Before embarking on a trip out of town, to a place where you know internet service may be poor, or quite expensive if it’s abroad, then downloading a map of the place being visited can be done in advance. So, whether you’re camping in the wilderness or travelling abroad, you can download a map of an area so you can see directions and use turn by turn navigation even when you can’t get online. The maps are also not large. The entire map of Lagos is about 40mb while Abuja is 25mb; at least on this reporter’s device. Wait time estimates and popular times: Using Google Maps, one can find out what the estimated wait times and popular times are at your favourite businesses so you can beat the crowds and save time. Remember where you parked: Is it impossible to park your car and not know where you parked after completing your visit? Maybe, maybe not, but you may need someone to get something from your car. It is not necessary to have them looking for a blue Toyota corolla out of dozens, making it a ‘Gulder Ultimate Search’. After navigating somewhere, you can use Google Maps to save your parking location. Voice commands: Keep your focus on the road by using voice commands on Google Maps. Just say “OK Google, find gas stations” or “Show alternate routes” to get the information you need, hands free. We use filling stations or petrol stations colloquially in Nigeria, but if Google does not respond to that, simply use Gas station to save yourself the stress. You can also create lists in order to keep track of favourite places and share them with friends. Recommendations and reviews go a long way in aiding decision making so that we can get the best value for money and time. With Google Maps, you can also find things to do and places to eat based on your unique interests and preferences. To sum it up (as we should know now), with Google maps, you can navigate anywhere, fast. Quickly add destinations based on recent searches without having to manually type in the location. Search for places, get alternative routes, real time information about traffic jams and delays, and an up to date ETA so you know exactly when you will be at your destination. Feel free to share your experiences with us on TechTalk on how well or not Google Maps lives up to your expectations.  CALEB OJEWALE