James Nnnadozie Uchegbuo, president general of Ahuwa-Oboro autonomous community, Ikwuano L.G.A, of Abia State, has reminded the Miyetti Allah Association of Nigeria that animal rearing in the country is not a public corporation rather a private enterprise. Uchegbuo, who stated this in Umuahia, Abia State capital, in an interview with newsmen said: “Herdsmen are on their own private business, just like Igbos spread in the north are on their own private business. Animal rearing is not a public corporation rather a private enterprise”. He wondered why the Federal Government has not come hard on those who perpetrate evils in the guise of rearing animals, noting that, “a lot of actions and inactions by the government, all calls for separatism not even Nnamdi Kanu’s IPOB. “The Federal Government should promote internal security that will be properly equipped to deal ruthlessly to all these trouble makers, who destroy farmers’ enterprises for their own selfish interest. “Unless they are punished severely for their actions, the issue of herdsmen/farmers clashes will not stop”. He expressed fear that Miyetti Allah would have almost formed the 4th tier of government, as the only constraint the body had was that the Nigerian constitution does not recognise them. “Miyetti Allah is the only group in Nigeria whose negative influence makes almost 200 million Nigerians shiver, as I speak, the government is consulting with them, a group tagged as the fourth terrorist group in the world and the Federal Government is pampering them,” he said. He condemned the high rate of crime in the country, noting that the North which used to be peaceful was experiencing chains of crimes from Boko Haram, Fulani herdsmen to banditry and kidnapping, warning that if left unchecked, it would metarmophose to a time bomb. He called on President Muhammadu Buhari to overhaul the security personnel in the country in order to checkmate the worsening situation, and equally called for the fortification of the Police Force to enable them face the current challenges across the country, just as he advised that the military personnel be restricted to war zones where they were trained for.  UDOKA AGWU, UMUAHIA