You probably haven’t given it much thought but Agritourism is a very important factor in growing the agricultural economy in Nigeria. Did you know that the United Nations World Tourism Organizations records tourism as one of the largest industries in the world surpassing such industries as oil exports, food products or automobiles? If you are not absolutely blown away by that fact, it would interest you to know that tourists arrive every 30 seconds in different countries around the world, putting the number at one (1) billion tourist arrivals in the world every year. That number is expected to increase by 60% by Year 2020. Why exactly should these figures concern us? It’s simple. The more we encourage agricultural tourism, the more we enjoy the benefits that tourism brings to any country; in this case, it would be directed towards agriculture – a sector with a most promising future in Nigeria. What Exactly Are the Benefits of Agritourism in Nigeria? To get a clear sense of the benefits from agritourism, let’s define the term. Wikipedia defines Agritourism as any agriculturally based operation or activity that brings visitors to a farm or ranch. What is more interesting is Wikipedia notes that Agritourism has different definitions in different parts of the world, and sometimes refers specifically to farm stays, or elsewhere as a wide variety of activities, including buying produce directly from a farm stand, navigating a corn maze, slopping hogs, picking fruits, feeding animals, or staying at a bed and breakfast (B&B) on a farm. Here are the benefits that can be expected from a growth in Agritourism: At the end of the visit, tourists would usually like to buy souvenirs to take back to their home country to show how much fun they had on the trip or their learning experiences. It’s sort of like how Facebook paved the way for several social media platforms to spring up. A surge in agrotourism would have the same viral effect and would, you guessed it again, lead to an increase in job creation. Sources http://www.theworldcounts.com/counters/impact_of_transport_on_environment/negative_environmental_impacts_of_tourism https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agritourism Hannah Edia is the Lead SEO/Content Development at Farmcrowdy. Send her an email here, hannah.edia@farmcrowdy.com  HANNAH EDIA