As part of efforts to convince the world’s most influential investor, Warren Buffet that cryptocurrency was worth his money, Justin Sun, founder of Tron and CEO of peer-to-peer file sharing protocol BitTrent, has revealed that he staked a record-breaking bid of $4.57 million to win a charity lunch date with the legend. The charity lunch date is an annual initiative by Warren Buffet in which he auctions off a three-hour lunch date to benefit Glide, a San Francisco charity organisation. The relationship between Glide which helps the homeless in San Francisco and Buffet began through his wife, Susan, who died in 2004. Prior to her death, Susan had volunteered to work at the Glide. “I official announce I’ve won the record-setting 20th anniversary charity lunch hosted by @WarrenBuffet” Sun tweeted from his handle @justinuntron on Monday. “I’ll also invite #blockchain industry leaders to meet with a titan of investment. I hope this benefits everyone. #Tron #TRX #BTT #BitTorrent.” Buffet is a well know critic of the cryptocurrency market. In a February interview with CNBC, the legendary investor said bitcoin has no unique value at all. “It attracts charlatans,” he said. “If you do something phony by going out and selling yo-yos or something, there’s no money in it – but when you get into Wall Street, there’s huge money.” In 2013 he called bitcoin a “rat poison squared” and at the annual shareholder meeting said that cryptocurrency trading is “just dementia”. “I’m looking forward to meeting a true pioneer in investing,” Sun, the 28-year-old founder said. “I’m excited to talk to Warren Buffet about the promise of blockchain and to get valuable tips and insights from him about entrepreneurship and making bold bets on the future. As part of winning the bid, Sun is allowed to bring up to seven friends to go to lunch with Buffet at Smith & Wollensky Steakhouse in New York City. Tronix also known as Tron or TRX was launched in 2017 and it is currently valued at $2.56 billion. It is the 10th largest cryptocurrency in the world, according to CoinMarketCap.com.