Water transportation in Lagos is expected to receive a boost, as Multimodal Transport Technologies Ltd, an integrated marine logistics solutions provider, has launched a one-stop centre in support of builders and operators of boats on the state waterways. The multimodal transport technologies is one of the kind purpose built warehouse and showroom that serves as a one-stop shop, which will cater for both leisure and commercial boat owners across Lagos. The centre, which was unveiled, Thursday, is an initiative that will drive the state government’s vision of creating an alternative means of transportation to ease traffic congestion on the roads. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Lagos State governor, is optimistic that the multimodal transport technologies would boost water transport in the state. “Presently we have five boats; two are 60- seater capacity while another two are 45- seater; and we have one that can ferry cars. But that is not enough because we plan to have more,” said Sanwo-Olu, who was represented at the launch by Taiwo Olufemi Salam, permanent secretary, Lagos State ministry of transportation. Oludamilola Emmanuel, the general manager of the Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA), who gave an insight into the passenger traffic on Lagos waterways, disclosed that about 1.5 million passengers are ferried per month. “For the very first time in Lagos, we are having an efficient and effective way to fix boat with parts readily available to ensure that movement can easily happen for the ferries,” Emmanuel said at the unveiling of the centre. Kayode Olowu, the MD/CEO of Multimodal Transport Technologies Ltd, said the company was supporting the state government’s plans for water transport, being the first phase of the business, as the company looks forward to building more infrastructure across the state. “In this store we have everything you need if you want to build a boat from scratch to finish and even for other boat operators we have enough in the store that even if they want to build boat, we can offer parts, services and others. So, apart from serving operators we also serve boat builders,” he said. According to Olowu, there is a need for government to create an enabling environment by encouraging firms playing in the marine logistics sector to do more and scale up their business. “We need waivers, we need to be able to bring this service to boat operators,” he stated. Olowu explained that the company was a marine logistics firm with a team of people that have worked in both private and public sectors with verse experience around maritime. “What we have done is to put up a one-stop marine centre,” he said.  JOSHUA BASSEY & JOHN SALAU