Muni Shonibare, CEO IO Furniture Limited Muni Shonibare founded Interior Options in 1987, rebranding it as IO Furniture Limited in 2008. She has over two decades of experience as an interior designer. She graduated with a degree in Industrial Design from Ahmadu Bello University, then received a post graduate diploma in Interior Design from the Instituto del Arte il restauro in Florence, Italy where she spent two years studying and shaping links with the Italian design industry. Muni has successfully executed many large-scale project, most notably, the re-design of the 5-star Hilton Hotel in Abuja. She is the founding President of the Interior Designer’s Association of Nigeria which is affiliated to the International Federation of Interior Designers and Architects, and is the managing Director of Ethniki, a sister company producing a range of West African inspired furniture and accessories. “We are a full-service interior design and manufacturing company characterized by our uncompromising quality and innovative design solutions. With innovation, functionality, and style at the heart and soul of our company, we deliver perfection consistently. From our signature classics to our custom project designs we have managed to build a stellar reputation for excellence, quality, reliability and integrity.” She says. IO prides themselves in their ability to interpret the essence of their clients through manufacturing and design. By working closely with each client, they are able to create spaces that embody their being, because regardless of whether they are individuals, brands or establishments to IO, each project is personal.  IO Furniture was founded in 1987 as Interior Options Ltd in response to the inability of local furniture manufacturers to deliver the design and international quality standards required by their very discerning clientele. It was primarily an interior design consultancy service providing interior design services to mostly oil companies in Nigeria but has since entered into furniture manufacturing using cutting edge technology and experienced Italian technical expertise. The company has restructured twice, first in 1997 as they expanded from the oil business to the financial industry, office accommodation and finally large scale residential properties; and again in 2008 when the company went truly international with a world-class manufacturing operation and showroom, and a technical management agreement with a well-established and reputable Italian Furniture Manufacturing company. They have a broad and varied, yet local, clientele ranging from individuals to multinationals, including Real Estate Developers, Hotels, Retailers, Government Institutions, Financial Institutions and Oil & Gas companies.  Ifeyinwa Ighodalo, CEO, DO.II Designs Ifeyinwa Ighodalo holds B.Sc. in Accountancy from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, but upon realizing her passion for interiors, in 1987, she established Design Options Ltd., a prestigious interior decorating and furniture manufacturing outfit. Since inception, Design Options has grown to become and is now widely recognized as one of the country’s very best in its area of expertise, in recognition of which it was honoured with the 2004 St. Moritz Style Award for Interior Design. She is a volunteer mentor for the mentorship programme of Fate Foundation. She is married to Asue Ighodalo and they are blessed with a beautiful daughter. DO.II Designs Limited is a Nigerian interior design and furniture manufacturing company, with the mission of creating customized elegance and style in interior home and business designs, while supporting and promoting the “Made In Nigeria” vision, by employing locally and using in-country resources, thereby encouraging capacity development in the Nigerian furniture manufacturing industry. They own and operate a SON certified factory, fitted with high performance, state of the art machinery from which they produce their exquisite, beautiful and artfully made furniture. At DO.II, they are not just about the production of furniture and interior designing, they are in the business of creating art and beauty, while meeting the ever evolving style and needs of their customers. As a testament to DO.II’s commitment to excellence, it emerged the winner in the Best Residential Designer category at the 2012 Interior Designers Excellence Awards and subsequently, the winner in the Best Hospitality category at the 2014 Interior Designers Excellence Awards and also in African Property Awards 2015/2016.  With over 25 years in the furniture manufacturing and interior design industry, their Company has evolved from just furniture manufacturing into a composite property design, construction and beautification enterprise, providing turnkey delivery of homes and offices with artistic yet functional features and exquisite interior designs, using best-in-class furniture and fittings. DO.II’s furniture productline is based on cutting-edge designs that are functional , yet elegant. Their styles of furniture continually evolve to meet modern living (contemporary and classic), rendered through unique production techniques that ensure quality and functionality. They maintain all other characteristics that retain the charm, comfort and high standard of their products. Their pride is in their rich selection of furniture and accessories, and the ability to design and manufacture according to the customers’ needs, providing them with customized pieces that fit, reflect their personality and are durable. In addition to manufacturing and to further meet the needs of their market, they provide turnkey remodeling and project management services to their individual and corporate clients to complement their products and as a one stop shop for interior solutions.  Bimbo Alashe, CEO, Leatherworld Leatherworld commenced business as a furniture retail outlet on the 1st of December 1994. She was established to meet the need for genuine furniture in the Nigerian market, specializing in the retail of exquisite furniture and accessories by exploiting partnerships with top five Italian luxury brands. In 1999 after four particularly rewarding years in business, the Abuja retail outlet was unveiled to serve clients within the nation’s capital and northern axis at large. This spectacular feat set a completely new standard in furniture showrooms in the country, as the first of its kind; giving their esteemed clients the opportunity of exploring a world of furniture on three different levels. The year 2005 saw the commissioning of concourse industries, an ultramodern factory situated in the Calabar free trade zone to assemble and manufacture world-class furniture. The opening of concourse industry set the pace as the first truly Nigerian furniture manufacturing company with a continental franchise to serve the local market; as well as export finished items to other West African countries.  Leatherworld took another giant stride in 2007 with the commissioning of her world class ultra modern head office/showroom situated at 11, Otunba Adedoyin Ogungbe street, lekki Phase 1 along Lekki expressway. A simple yet classy woman, Alashe sits on the board of several blue chip companies and is a mentor to several men and women who desire to walk her path in her line of trade and beyond. She attended Pitman College, London and the Regent Academy of Designs and Fine Arts. She also bagged a Post Graduate degree in Interior Designing from the London Design School. She is an optimist and is constantly working to ensure the brand spreads throughout Africa and around the world. For almost three decades, Leatherworld has carved a niche in this line of business with unique furniture that meets the needs of their distinguished clients.  Agatha Eric-Udorie, CEO, Agatha Interior Designs Agatha Eric-Udorie is a professional interior designer that exudes a rare mix of deep passion and intuitive knowledge. In what many close associates describe as a fascinating twist in fate, The young professionally trained nurse found herself being tutored in the workshop of a carpenter, which eventually led to the birth of the success story being told today. Eric-Udorie grew in knowledge and the rudiments of carpentry, so also grew her intense desire for beautifying Interior spaces. She combined this passion with her already broad exposure to luxury & detailed finishing, which straightened her path into the very enterprising entrepreneur of repute she has become. Her generous experience encompasses all facets of the industry and some aspects of civil engineering and finishing construction. Her working career started at Finishing Marble, where she was Head Sales for some years before she left to start her first Company Boli-A Enterprises. Boli-A Enterprises at the time, was engaged in the production of furniture and the company was a manufacturer for several prominent and leading Brands including Leather World during the First Renaissance era of Interior Design in Nigeria. Leather World offered a rare opportunity to showcase and hone her talents offering a dedicated corner in her Gallery. Bimbo Alashe, the CEO of Leather World was one of the pillars in the Industry on whose experience Eric-Udorie thrived, and has remained till date a career mentor and confidant. In 1996, after adding a lot to her knowledge, exposure and entrepreneurial experience Agatha Eric-Udorie went on ahead to start of Agatha’s Interior Design Limited with the support of her husband, Arch. Eric Uche Udorie. Agatha is a student of the KLC Design School London, with her Diploma in Interior Design, and in 2013 she was further nominated to the International Federation of Interior Designers as a Resource Council Member. She has been and remains in charge of affairs at the company since inception, being fully responsible for providing the direction, inspiration, motivation and guidance through the company’s several growth stages & phases evidently witnessed over the past years. She is still fondly called the “Lady Carpenter” till date.  Agatha’s Interior is a design & lifestyle driven company whose primary mission is to be the foremost residential furniture, project and hospitality leader, defining the lines in style and design. Their pieces are designed to fit the personal and creative style of homes, and their collections offer distinct and varied choices in design, textures, visual interest in bespoke and personalized trims, tailoring and finishes. They are very proud of the level of quality furniture they supply and install at Agatha’s Interior Design Limited and for emphasis on their professionalism, a significant portion of their technical employees are third and fourth generation furniture makers. They are the Agatha’s Interior Design Limited Professionals, and they are the reason the standards of quality remain superior to most furniture manufacturers & retailers in the furnishing industry.  Funke Soyibo, MD/CEO HNK Interiors The stunning Funke Soyibo was born in the city of Ibadan in Oyo state of Nigeria on the 3rd of April 1978 into a family of 5. She attended Queens School Ibadan and also graduated with a BSC in Sociology at The University of Ibadan Nigeria. She also has a diploma degree in Interior Design from the Sheffield school of Interior. Funke founded the company HNK interiors Ltd in the year 2007. HNK interiors is an interior design company that also deals in retailing of Home and Office furniture, window blinds and general home and interior decor accessories. Her business was established as a result of her passion and love for transforming ordinary spaces to an extraordinary one. She is also the MD and founder of Opulent Living. This is the Luxury version of HNK interiors. Opulent Living caters for the high end needs of high net worth individuals and corporate bodies. Funke is married and blessed with 3 children. She enjoys listening to music, singing and dancing when she is not working. She established Opulent Living was established for 2 reasons. First was as a result of constant request for high end furniture and decor from clients. She has had to go shopping specially on various occasions for different clients that required such services even before Opulent Living was founded. Secondly, for herself, it was also a way of taking the business yet to another level. Interior design for Funke is a way of life.  It’s a part of her. In her words, “I enter into people’s spaces and so easily I’m able to design the space right in my head. The experience has been great.  Yes I’ve had my challenges but the passion keeps driving me and I just love it!” she says. The vision of HNK is to provide a high quality, value for money service which exceeds customer’s expectation and cements new and existing relationships. Their desire is to be the top destination centre in the interior design industry.  Their superb home and furniture sets are to die for. She recently provided the furniture used for the reunion of Big Brother Naija and metamorphosed the space given to her into an unforgettable display of luxury and grandeur. Asked about her view on local production of furniture in Nigeria and she had this to day “Local production is the way! It’s hard finding reliable and consistent human labour in this Country. Nigerian Artisans can shut down your business if you are not careful. They don’t share the same views and aspirations with you and as such they can’t be really bothered about being their best at what they do.” On her clients, Funke says people are not the same. According to her, “Some people want the best and they go for it at all cost while some are not really particular but are more precise about the functionality.  At HNK interiors Ltd, we combine functionality with style. Though functional but it has to be stylish as well. So the clients that understand the concept are always willing to pay.” 