Chevron Nigeria Limited says it has contributed over N5.5 billion to the Egema and Gbaramatu Communities Development Foundation (EGCDF) since its inauguration in 2017.
General manager, Policy Government and Public Affairs, Chevron, Esimaje Brikinn, said this on Thursday during the annual general meeting of the Egbema and Gbaramatu Communities Development Foundation held in Warri, Delta State. Brikinn, who was represented by Sam Daibo, area manager, Chevron Warri office, said the funds had been judiciously used through the GMoU process to address community needs in the areas of education, health and economic development.
He said achievements of EGCDF in handling the funds had reinforced its belief that a process that was community-driven could stimulate quicker community development than processes and systems designed without effective participation of community members.
“With its Inauguration in 2017 and with the funds available to it, we are glad that the current leadership has executed and commissioned 22 infrastructural projects, including concrete jetty, concrete link roads and others. “The GMoU now aligns more with the Sustainable Development Goals. The additional features include: Operational Excellence, Creativity/Innovation, Sustainable Economic Empowerment Programmes and small business and enterprise development,” Brikinn said.
Brikinn also appealed to community leaders, women, youth and other stakeholders to keep an open mind and continue to support the implementation of the GMoU so that their communities can reap more benefits from the agreement.
He commended the Delta State governor, Ifeanyi Okowa and his deputy, Kingsley Otuaro for creating the enabling environment for the GMoU to thrive.
Earlier, the Delta State deputy governor, Kingsley Otuaro, who was represented by Emmanuel Amgbaduba, urged CNL to do more for their host communities, appealing to the two communities to remain peaceful. Presenting his report, chairman of the EGCDF, Jude Ukori said from inception of the Foundation it has awarded 147 infrastructural projects which cut across sectors including health, transportation, education and hospitality, as well as access ways, water schemes, housing, social and economic sectors and peace building amongst others.
He commended Governor Okowa and his deputy for their renewed commitment to partner with the riverine communities of Egbema and Gbaramatu kingdoms to deliver development projects to the doorsteps of their people.