A group known as Northern Youth Council at the weekend disclosed how they have intensified efforts to lobby lawmakers-elect to support a member of the House of Representatives from Imo State, Emeka Nwajiuba to emerge next speaker of the House. Speaking BDSUNDAY in Abuja, National President of Northern Youth Council, Yahaya Salisu said youths across nineteen Northern states, at its meeting in Kaduna endorsed the candidacy of the lawmaker representing Ehime Mbano Ihette-Uboma and Obowo Federal Constituency because of his vision for Nigeria. “The Northern Youth Council in its wisdom felt the need to call on the newly elected members of the lower chambers of the National Assembly irrespective of their political party to consider Hon. Emeka Nwajiuba, an experienced member from Imo State, patriot, a detribalized Nigerian who has contributed to the growth of our democracy to the position of the Speaker of the National Assembly”, Salisu said. He described the lawmaker as detribalised and patriotic Nigerian, who is ready to work with President Buhari’s vision to take Nigeria to the Next Level, adding that it is expedient the expectations of many Nigerians, in areas of infrastructure and human development are met through smooth relationship between the executive and the legislative arms of government. “The need to get it right this time around, for the smooth running of the affairs of government as we go into yet another new term of four years mandate given to President Muhammadu Buhari and the 9th Assembly by the Nigerian people is what informed our support,” he said. He noted that the decision to call for support for Nwajiuba to emerge as the next speaker is born out of their desire for a healthy working relationship between the executive and the legislature.
Justifying the decision to support the South-East candidature, Salisu said: “The North West has produced the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The South West has produced the Vice President of Nigeria; for equity, justice and fair representation, the South East should be given the speaker of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and in that zone, Hon. Emeka deserves to be in the position due to his vast experience and educational qualification. “While we salute the courage and good efforts of the APC National working committee for holding an interactive meeting with the elected incoming members of the House of Representatives, we advise that such should hold for the incoming Senators. “Finally, we wish to call on the all members of the National Assembly elect especially those of the Lower Chamber to support the call for Nwajiuba for Speaker, House of Representative, we were part of the process that brought you all on board and its our humble plea and belief that Hon. Emeka Nwajiuba will not disappoint us”.  James Kwen, Abuja