There was something thrilling and amazing about the Falz Experience II, from the onset it is noticeable that a lot of work was put  into the success of the show. As I  walked into the main hall from the aisle I was immediately  taken aback by the evident  efforts placed in making the show a reality. The setup was good, the lighting was stellar, decoration in perfect order and of course, the mind-blowing stage that kept us  glued and entertained for two hours. I had no doubt that I needed to share my own experience, despite some slight errors noticed, this piece is in no way aimed at focusing on those errors though, it is one written in admiration for a young man who has done incredibly well for himself. Before I proceed further into the main reason why I decided to share my experience, I must say that this piece is written to encourage many young men and women out there, who have either a passion or talent but are too scared to explore them for fear of failure, I would say in Dbanj’s words,“You are seating on a long thing”, wasting valuable time which can never be regained . If you don’t dare to dream, dare to try, and keep at it. Don’t do this and you will only remain at the mediocre . In the words of media mogul Linda Ikeji  from her interview with the CEO magazine , “the most important thing in life is to leave my  footprints in the sands of time”, . Linda Ikeji echoes what should in the minds of every young person . It is important to leave a lasting legacy so that generations that come after you will be impacted from such legacy . Simply put, life is bare and worthless without dreams. Over the years we have seen young men and women rise to the top from nothing , people like
Linda ikeji, Don Jazzy, Tiwa Salvage, Genevieve Nnaji, and many more. Falz,  also known as Folarin Falana, was born in Mushin Lagos into the family of the Falanas on October 27, 1990. He  went on to study law at the University of Reading in UK, having graduated with an LLB honors degree , he was called to bar in 2012 after graduating from Nigeria Law School in Abuja. He started his career in 2009, which started then as a hobby while in secondary school with a friend called “The schoolboys” Falz parents Femi Falana  and Funmi Folana  are seasoned lawyers and human right activists. it isn’t strange that they would encourage their son to becoming one too. Falz released his first compilation of his songs as a mixtape then titled“Shakara” and later released another one in 2011 titled “Waz Up Guy.” Falz gained more grounds when he released his latest  single titled “High Class” and Currency”, these songs brought him to the limelight in 2014. This hit music brought him in to the list of the Xclusive’s Artistes to watch in 2014, from then on till date, he has remained on the limelight. In 2015 Falz won Best collaboration of the year category at the Nigerian Entertainment Awards for his song “Marry Me”, his song Ello Bae won him a nomination in the Best Street Hop Artiste of the Year, category at the Headies 2015. Falz is a multi-talented artist who is highly skilled in singing, acting and comedy, he is one of those rare gems who have got all 3 talents fused in one and has shown impeccable skills in all. In 2016 Falz won “Best Actor in a comedy Move/ Series” at the 2016 Africa Magic Viewer’s Choice Awards for his role as Segun in Funke Akindele’s Tv series Jenifa’s Diary. In June of
2016, he was also voted the winner of the “Viewer’s Choice Best New International Act” categoryat the 2016 BET Awards. In 2017 Falz worked with Simi to release a new album called Chemistry, a seven-track EP solely produced by Sess. He had earlier worked with Simi on some hit tracks which is one of my favourites “Jamb Question and Soldier”, They still remain groundbreaking songs today. In 2017 Falz released another album called 27 to commemorate his 27th birthday, it contained 17 track songs and most of them were hits, songs like “Welldone Sir, Bhad Baddo Baddest, and something light, this album featured loads of  Artists like DAvido, Olamide, Burna Boy, Wande Coal, Maleek Berry, Ycee and many others, this album did extremely well and gained him loads of nominations and awards, including a nomination for The Headies Award for Rap Album of the Year, indeed it was agood year for him. In May 2018, Falz  released a new music video called “This is Nigeria “ which was inspired by Childish Gambino’s This is America”, the song  tried to expose the Nigerian issues including corruption and bribery, which was later banned by NBC as being controversial, and the case is
still in court till date. In September 2018 Falz  won “Best Supporting Actor” at the 2018 Africa Magic Viewer’s Choice Awards for his role as Quam in Tope Oshin Oguns movie New Money, becoming his first ever Nigerian Musician to win the Africa Magic Viewer’s Choice Awards Twice. He has featured in loads of movies like Jenifa’s Diary, Couple of Days, Tinsel, 10 days in Sun city, New Money, Merry Men; the Real Yoruba Demons and Chief Daddy. It is still a mystery to many how Femi Falana’s son ended up in the entertainment industry having being born into a family of
Lawyers, although it seems quite strange it looks like a recurrent incidence with most wealthy families in Nigeria now, familes like Dj Cuppy and her sister ; “The popular Otedola family” and the famous musician Davido whose father is a renowned politician. Most times these kids end up in professions far-fetched from what their parents had initiated or
ever imagined. The main lesson from Falz’s life is his passion, dream, drive and determination. He has proven that one can be whatever one decides to be no matter the conditions or circumstances. Falz has shown tremendous skills across the entertainment industry in  a span of 7 years, he has broken the jinx of the old saying “One can’t be the jack of all trades as he would be a master of none”, Falz has definitely proven otherwise here, by being the master of all 3 areas, from being the only Nigerian musician to win 2 AMVCA  awards in movies, to revealing his great skills in comedy with his popular Yoruba street accent which is so adorable, this has taken him round the globe to finally his array of songs which has won him numerous awards consistently, he has revealed that hard work pays. This piece is written to encourage the young and upcoming stars, that there is no short cut to success, you must work really hard if you are going to get to the top, as seen in the life of Falz. There are no quick ways to making money, there should be consistent diligence and passion. 