Techcode Nigeria, an indigenous cyber security company is hosting the second edition if the South-East Cyber Security Conference (SECYCONE 2019) to strengthen the security ecosystem and cyber security cluster within the region which is fast developing to become a base for young tech entrepreneurs. The company which announced plans for the three-day event scheduled to hold from Wednesday 16th– Friday 18th October, 2019 in Enugu State, says the conference is being held in collaboration with South-East chambers of commerce with the aim of promoting cyber security due diligence, audiences’ knowledge, awareness and understanding of the issues around cyber-crime in our global digital society. The conference will attract cyber security professionals from various industries within and outside the South-Eastern region, including, financial services sector, insurance firms, telecommunications, the oil and gas, conglomerates, tech start-ups, financial technology (FinTech) companies, states and local Governments in the South-Eastern region, parastatals in the South East, the police, military/para-military and others. According to Nwogha Joshua, chief executive officer of Techcode Nigeria, the programme theme; “Strengthen the security ecosystem and cybersecurity cluster” is intended to digitally influence the cyberspace by offering the platform for discussion for participants, as well as various products and services that will help bridge the digital and information gap in Nigeria and indeed in West Africa. “Cyber threats and attacks are constantly growing and becoming more sophisticated, dangerous and damaging. It is a top priority for businesses to protect their networks, computers, and information from unauthorized access and breaches”, he said. Nwogha posited that SECYCONE 2019, the second edition South-east Cyber-Security Conference, is holding in Enugu State because of the State’s strategic and economic importance in the South-East. He mentioned also that SECYCONE 2019 has the support of Governors of the South-Eastern States. “SECYCONE 2019 is expected to have an audience of two thousand drawn from Southeast stakeholder; featuring SME clinic. “Techcode Nigeria is eager to leverage Secycone to promoting the ease of doing business and Cyber security due diligence, audiences’ knowledge, awareness and understanding of the issues around Cyber-crime in the global digital society in the region.” The programme which aims to serve the governments and the private sector in the South Eastern part of the country especially is uniquely merged with Exhibition; Hackathon Competition to all tertiary Institution; SME Clinic and South-East Recognition Award. (SERA) “We are confident that the 3-day event which is targeted at high  level executives from across all the strata of human endeavour – banking, oil and gas, tech start-ups, financial technology companies, all tiers of government, telecommunications, logistics, retail, hospitality, the military, paramilitary, etc., which use the internet of things for doing their businesses, will live up to its billing as the most established and only dedicated security and public safety event to serve the government and private sector in the South-Eastern part of Nigeria. The Keynote address would be delivered by James Agada, the former CEO of Computer Warehouse Group amongst other notable speakers lined up for the event including Yaniv Ovitz, Destiny Amana. Nwogha further stated why the conference is a must attend for businesses adding that as enterprises and governments now provide most services online to their clients, the size of cyber-attack has grown exponentially.