In a bid to promote ICT innovation and investment opportunities, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is organising the second edition of the Emerging Telecoms Technologies Research and ICT innovation forum designed for the North-West region of the country. With the theme: “Developing Nigeria’s Tech Ecosystem; Imperative for Improving Local Content”, the forum presents a unique opportunity for NCC to bring together key players/actors in the Nigerian tech-ecosystem to deliberate and suggest policy, framework/strategy that could further develop the sector, thereby serving as a catalyst for improving local content in ICT/Telecommunication sector. The collaborative stakeholder’s meeting is a two-day event scheduled to hold at Bristol Palace Hotel, Kano State in August 14 and 15, 2019. According to NCC, the first day is to identify the gaps in the ICT/Telecoms sector, and further strengthen the collaboration between stakeholders and the Commission. The second day will have a breakout session to discuss possible solution to the identified gaps. Umar Danbatta, the executive vice chairman of NCC is expected to address the gathering comprising of stakeholders drawn from the Nigerian Tech ecosystem; Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and Tech hubs. professional associations in the ICT sector, Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM), consumer advocacy group and the financial sector will also be in attendance. A lead paper presentation on the theme “Developing Nigeria’s Tech Ecosystem; Imperative for Improving Local Content” will be delivered by Chris Uwaje, Africa Chair, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Internet of Things (IEEE IoT). Other stakeholders participating in the forum have been slated as panelists in a discourse focused on: “Digital Skills Imperative for Retooling National Workforce and Developing Capacities for Future Work, Innovation Hubs as the Fulcrum of Local Content Development, Digital Inclusion, Employment and National Survivability”. Further discussion will also take place on the topic: “Legislative and Government support for enhancing tech eco system in Nigeria.”  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson