Bafot Studios, producers of the international television shows called Kids Say the darndest things, has in partnership with Lifemate Furniture and AG Mortgage Bank Plc, announced plans to launch a new television game show for families called The Big Family Dream. The Big Family Dream, which will be premiered on MNETs’ African Magic Family from October 2019, is a financial literacy game show, premised on the basis that families have dreams that cut across having good apartment, car, education for children and more. With an allocation of N10 million visual money, these dreams come true upfront for  the 20 families selected after a rigorous audition process, but they are required to fight to keep their dreams by competing with other families. At the end of the show, the only standing family will keep the dream prize, which is a fully furnished apartment while the runner up get consolation prizes with an option to get desired furniture from Lifemate on discounted rate. Speaking at the media launch of the show in Lagos on Wednesday, Oludare Onasanya, executive producer, disclosed that the dream prize for this season is a 3-bedroom apartment sponsored by AG Mortgage Bank Plc and furnished by Lifemate Nigeria. According to him, the runner up will get an all expense paid weekend getaway at City Height Hotel by Opebi link Road in Ikeja, Lagos. “The Big Family Dream is one of the many original formats, Bafot Studios has, and we are pleased that sponsors are already seeing the potential of the show.” “Apart from the prize, the show holds a lot of entertainment value for families as it will afford them the opportunity to learn a lot about life and financial management. We created this format to provide wholesome family entertainment while giving family oriented brands an opportunity to deliver value to families in Nigeria,” he added. Ejiemhen Orebayo, public relations officers of Lifemate Nigeria, who said the firm was delighted to be part of the family game show because Lifemate is about family, further said that the company deals with various furniture that serves family needs from the living room to bedroom and to kitchen cabinet. Describing Lifemate as a one-stop-shop for complete household furniture, she said the participants on the game show represent the target demography that Lifemate has delighted over the years with its premium home furniture. “Our participation is a way of showing our appreciation to Nigerian families and to assure them of our commitment to improving their lifestyle. We are very pleased with the partnership and what it has achieved so far,” she added. Nathaniel Uchegbue, head, Legal Administration, AG Mortgage Bank Plc, said the bank has been in the business of providing to Nigerian middle class, which Big Family Dream show represents. “We see this as an opportunity to tell Nigerians that owning a home is a possibility and we have been driving this concept for years. Owning a house is affordable especially through some mortgage products created over time by AG Mortgage Bank Plc that are accessible to Nigerian public. And we partner developers to make these opportunities possible for Nigerians,” he explained. He said though, people have National Housing Fund Scheme (NHF) to leverage on, but many people do not know that NHF grant loans to Nigerians.  AMAKA ANAGOR-EWUZIE