Olusola Malomo, an expert in food and nutrition, has said the fruit juice made from 100 percent natural grown oranges provides numerous health benefits to consumers and investment opportunities for investors in the cultivation of the crop. Malomo who made this known in the July edition of his monthly healthy living dialogue, an initiative that is supported by Chivita Limited as part of its ‘no-added sugar’ campaign, said that consumption of orange juice has no hazardous effect on the human body. He added that the Nigerian fruit juice market is estimated to grow by more than 20 percent this year owing to the rising preference among consumers for natural fruit juices and high population growth rate. The dietician said pure orange juice contains some of the richest nutrients the heart and other parts of the body need to perform optimally. “Indeed, what many people know about orange juice nutritional value – is a tip of its overall dietary worth”, he said in a statement. According to him, researchers have proved that 100 percent orange juice facilitates free cholesterol transfer to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol – a process that maintains a healthy heart. “There is also substantial evidence from observational studies that the consumption of orange fruit juice has a protective effect against the risk of hypertension and other major heart diseases,” he said “With randomized controlled trials showing an inverse relationship between 100percent fruit juice and hypertension. This is because 100 percent red-orange is high in lycopene that is proven to statistically reduce blood pressure and insulin resistance,” he added. Citing recent research findings, Malomo categorized the gains of consuming orange juice into five broad headings which he listed as: more than just a bag of natural sugar; right amount each day keeps obesity away and ally for a healthy heart. Others are: reduces high blood pressure/insulin resistance and improves the body’s glycaemic control. He dismissed the claim that orange juice is just ‘a pack of natural sugar, arguing that it provides a variety of vitamins and minerals such as vitamin C and potassium – known to moderate blood pressure while enhancing the wellbeing of the human system. “Intake of orange juice is an important component of the overall health goal, looking at the food pyramid with respect to dietary guidelines, orange fruit, like every other fruit, counts as part of five portions a day.” “Juicing of these fruits has remained a convenient way to help meet the recommended daily servings,” he further said. He noted that studies have shown that the consumption of orange juice is not associated to any adverse health effects. “Consumption of oranges helps to detoxify the body and enhances its ability to fight health-related challenges,” he said.  Josephine Okojie 