 Fidelity Bank has spent some N3billion cash in its savings reward promo to its loyal customers since the programme commenced five years ago. The bank management said the number of beneficiaries across the country so far has reached over 7000. The Northern Regional Manager of Fidelity Bank, Vanessa Mordi, disclosed this at Apo Village in Abuja, where twelve customers, including two children, smiled to the bank with cash rewards ranging from N500, 000 to N150, 000 for operating savings accounts with the bank. The Regional Manager who was represented by the Divisional Head of Retail Banking, Richard Maduebu, said the reward scheme is to appreciate loyal customers and show that the bank was concerned about the welfare of its customers. According to her, the best way to appreciate the customers is to practicalise it in naira and kobo for everyone to see. “They are the reason we are in business and we have to make them feel appreciated”, she said. Mordi added:  “We have given out about N3billion cash to 7109 of our customers in this promo since its commencement about five years ago and for this Northern Activation about N74m will be rewarding about 190 savings account customers made up of 130 for the Fidelity savings account and 60 for the Children’s Account, which is for us school fees support.” Speaking on the selection process, the regional manager said numbers were selected randomly from branches in the Northern region and thrown into a pool and the winners picked from there. Mordi assured all customers they could still win as the promo was an ongoing thing moving from location to location. She said a special loyalty selection reward offer would be extended to the first 100 customers in Apo Mechanic Village to open an account  with FidelityBank. Some of the customers who were rewarded,  Nnena Ogbulafor, Okechukwu Emilia and Musa Usman, were surprised at the gesture and commended the bank for the package. Ogbulafor said, “I thought it was a scam when I was called, but somehow managed to come and I saw that it was real.” Other beneficiaries shared the same story of thinking it was a ruse but felt elated at the surprise package from Fidelity Bank.  Mordi said the on-going Northern Market Activation Campaign was holding across all the 19 northern states. 