Ogun State government says it is working towards repositioning the civil and public service for efficient service delivery for the people. Dapo Abiodun, the state governor, tated this while inaugurating the Committee on the Review of Appointmentd and Promotions in the State Civil Service and Enterprises between February 1 and May 29, 2019, in his office at Oke-mosan, Abeokuta. The governor noted that the State Public Service, renowned for its professionalism, commitment and dedication, be provided with the right type of leadership to enable it perform optimally. “Ogun State public service is renowned for its professionalism, commitment and dedication and it occupies an important position in the comity of state in the nation. “This is the state of Simeon Adebo and A. K. Degun. The state has produced giants who laid the foundation of public service in Nigeria,” he said. According to him, the feedback received by his administration on the appointment of some people into positions of responsibility was unsatisfactory, hence, the setting up of the committee. The governor, who said his administration was determined to build a solid manpower base, made up of qualified people, added that the committee was to examine and review all appointments and employments into the public service, MDAS and other related matters connected between February 1 and May 29, 2019. He also noted that the committee was to ascertain whether there are establishment vacancies for all posts and grade levels, to review and establish the procedures for appointment in line with Public Service Regulations and Extant Rules. The committee, according to him, is to recommend to government appropriate course of action on the appointments. The governor also said that the committee was to make any recommendation that may forestall recurrence of such appointments, and that it had four weeks to submit its report. Responding, Dipo Odulate, chairman of the committee and former Head of Service, lauded the governor for being meticulous and not rushing to take action on any issue. He said the committee would leave no stone unturned in discharging its assignment as it was poised to work assiduously, transparently and be fair to all. Other members of the committee are Sola Adeyemi, Kehinde Ogunfowodu, Jide Oyeti, Ambali Isola, Moyosore Olowonmi, Olufunmilayo Stanley, and Nurudeen Oyedele, who serves as the secretary.