 Kaduna State government has emerged tops as the state with the most effective website. Centre for International Advanced and Professional Studies (CIAPS) governance report index on e-governance has shown. The e-Governance Report on Websites of Nigerian states prepared by students of media/journalism and digital media of CIAPS ranks the website of Kaduna State government as the most effective with 72 percent scores based on 10 key criteria. The criteria include: User friendliness, empowerment opportunity, directory updated, interactivity, content relevance, updates, policies, accountability and call to action. Also, Delta State with 70 percent; Anambra State 65.5 percent; Kano State 65.1 percent; Ekiti State 64.5 percent; Lagos State 64 percent; Akwa-Ibom State 64 percent; Oyo State 61 percent; Enugu State 56.5, and Plateau State 54 percent make up the top 10 state governments with an active websites. The e-Governance report on Websites of Nigerian also indicated that Taraba State had the lowest score with 20 percent while Adamawa, Bayelsa, Cross River, Niger, Imo and Zamfara have non-existent websites. Anthony Kila, director, CIAPS, while reacting to the outcome of the report bemoans the neglect of websites by federal and state governments. Kila says when you talk about democracy, e-Governance must be taken seriously because the world is going digital, adding that e-governance tackles pollution and corruption best. “The future is digital. So, the rational thing to do is to be prepared to go digital too. It is sad that we still have to tell our leaders this at this point in time,” Kila states. The report also indicates only two states scored 70 percent and above in the whole of the process. The category was broke down into four segments that consisted of the top 10 states, the middle states, the bottom 10 and the non-existent websites states. “Kaduna led all other states with 72 percent, while Delta followed with 70 percent. On the non-existent list, we have Adamawa, Bayelsa, Cross-River, Niger, Imo and Zamfara states. There is no data on interactivity because all that were evaluated failed to respond to our mails after communicating to them via their e-mail addresses provided on their websites,” the e-Governance report on Websites indicated.