President Muhammadu Buhari Wednesday assured members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of All Progressives Congress APC, that competent members with the requisite experience will be invited to contribute their quota to nation-building as heads and chairmen of boards of governmental parastatals and agencies. The President who said he would be more conscious of the interests of the party in taking key decisions, stated this when members of the NWC of the APC at the State House in Abuja. A statement by Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said President Buhari pledged to uphold party supremacy and commended the National Chairman , Adams Oshiomhole, and other members for their sacrifices and overall success in the last general elections in the country. “It is obvious that the success of the party was more paramount in your hearts. You could have deployed the times and energy you deployed for the party for your own personal use. ‘‘I respect the sacrifices you are making; you can only derive satisfaction if you are working for your country and all our people because, materially, nobody can pay you for the sacrifices,” President Buhari used the occasion to appeal to NWC members to abide by the constitution of the party, adding: “It is not enough to just criticise certain decisions of the party without first understanding what the constitution says.” Earlier, Oshiomhole while congratulating the President on the electoral victory, noted that the NWC was meeting with him exclusively for the first time after the elections. The party chairman acknowledged that, while it was regrettable that the party lost some states, the greatest victory of the APC was in Kwara and Gombe states. ‘‘In Kwara, we uprooted the ruling dynasty and inaugurated absolutely loyal and totally committed APC men at the helm of affairs,’’ he said. Commending the unique leadership style of the President, Oshiomhole thanked President Buhari for his unflinching support that ensured the success of the party in holding the principal offices of the 9th National Assembly.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja