This weekend OkadaBooks features romantic African novels from the best selling Essien Series. Keeping Secrets by Kiru Taye Have you ever loved someone and didn’t even know it? That’s the dilemma facing Felix Essien when he wakes from a coma to find he is married to the most beautiful and sensual woman he’s ever known. He cannot remember her or their wedding; he who had sworn never to get married or to give his heart to another. Yet, he feels an intense bond with her that he intends to explore fully. Ebony can’t believe her good fortune when her paper husband wakes not remembering the temporary marriage arrangement with no intimacies he’d proposed, and is now the adoring husband she’s always dreamt of. She plans to make the most of the passion blossoming between them. However, would he still feel that way when he regains his memory and realises she’s been keeping secrets and their marriage is not what he thinks it is? {Read Now} Read More :  Okadabooks for the Weekend Featuring Princesses From the Royal House of Saene Making Scandal by Kiru Taye Sassy, successful Faith Brown has earned her place in the boardroom through hard work and sheer ambition. Making family by not on her agenda when there are businesses to develop and competitors to outdo. So when a casual affair with smooth and irresistible tycoon Mark Essien leads to an unplanned pregnancy, she’s determined not to make the same mistakes her mother made by living with a man just for the sake of her child. With the media dogging their affairs in the boardroom and the bedroom, they find that making family is harder than making scandal.{Read Now}  Riding Rebel by Kiru Taye Seen as the rebel Essien, Tony has always felt like an outsider. With a daredevil lifestyle, he’s more at home in leathers than in a suit, and more likely to be seen gracing the red carpets at a movie premiere with a starlet draped on his arms than in a boardroom. Still, he’s determined to prove himself to his family and build a successful movie business. Spotting Rita Dike at an event, he sees the potential star of his new movie and his next pleasure conquest.But as she gets closer to the truth, Rita risks losing the riding rebel who’s raided her heart. Can love heal hearts or will deceit break them? {Read Now} Have a glass of Juice as you relish in the pleasure of reading brought to you from Essien Series on OkadaBooks. Happy Reading.