San-Francisco based Ripple Labs, a cryptocurrency platform for payment systems, has tapped Financial Trust Group, a Nigerian-based financial services firm, as principal adviser in moves to deepen its presence in Nigeria and Africa.  In an interview with BusinessDay, Avant Global, an international business networking firm also operating as a holding vehicle for direct equity of preferred and common Series A and B shares in Ripple, disclosed that after observing growth in adoption of Ripple – also known as XRP – in Nigeria and across Africa, it is now ready to scale its presence on the continent.  The firm had made a previous foray into the continent which it says was a learning opportunity to understand and think about ways the network could bring valuable opportunities and relationships there for successful ventures.  “Now, our company has matured to fulfill this mission and we have the right individuals to assist in the development of potential deals,” Thomas Carrol, chief investment officer of Avant Group told BusinessDay.  Ripple is an open sourced platform designed to allow fast and cheap transactions. It was primarily created to solve the inefficiencies of SWIFT which handles the majority of global interbank exchange activity, annually this is about $155 trillion dollars. SWIFT services overtime have been undermined by slow processing times which could take 3 to 5 days. Ripple on the other hand would take 3 to 5 seconds.  Ripple is mostly seen as a digital currency, similar to cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum. In fact, in Nigeria almost everyone trade it the same way bitcoin is traded.  “Ripple is not a cryptocurrency,” Carrol told BusinessDay. “Cryptocurrencies are actively mined by computers processing huge amounts of energy. Ripple is a digital asset.”  Anyone can access Ripple and everyone has an equal right to use it. Ripple Labs, the company does not control the network, collect fees, or limit access because Ripple is a distributed, real-time payment protocol for anything of value. It is a shared public database, with a built-in distributed currency exchange, that operates as the world’s first universal translator for money. Unlike Bitcoin, Ripple is currency agnostic and has a foreign exchange component built right into the protocol.  “There is a real conversation to be had in understanding the fundamental differences between Bitcoin and Ripple,” Carrol said. “Bitcoin maybe more actively used, but the potential for Ripple as an intermediary in the global financial settlement network is unrivaled. We believe that working through our in-country partners to provide this education is the best means of bringing Silicon Valley to the Nigerian people.”  Where bitcoin has a continually growing tool with an eventual maximum, and Ethereum theoretically has no limit, Ripple was created with all of its 100 billion XRP tokens right of the gate.  Ripple currently has three products that over 200 banks – including the majority of the top 50 global banks – are suing actively. They provide a full suite of services that banks require when sending funds globally. The RippleNet is a network of institutional payment-providers such as banks and money services businesses that use solutions developed by Ripple to provide a frictionless experience to send money globally. The RippleNet platform with xVia, xCurrent and xRapid. XRP is leveraged on the xRapid platform.  “Ripple’s adoption by central banks, banks, private institutions and digital asset exchanges has been phenomenal to see,” Carroll said. “In a heavily regulated and conservative environment, it is rare to see a tech company have so much success in a short amount of time.”  Carroll, however, sees Facebook Libra facing incredible regulatory scrutiny as a result of trust issues that have been associated with in recent times. He does not see Libra going live for at least a year until their consumer based platform is operating.