The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC has relieved Frankland Briyai, Resident Electoral Commissioner, REC for Cross River State of his appointment following his declaration to contest for the November 16 Bayelsa Governorship election. Briyai had addressed the Media to the effect that he has resigned his position as REC with effect from 8th August 2019 and joined a Political Pato contest the forthcoming Governorship election in Bayelsa State. Festus Okoye, INEC National Commissioner and Chairman of Information and Voter Education Committee in statement on Friday said,
ollowing his declaration, the Commission has relieved Briyai of his duties as a Resident Electoral Commissioner and withdrawn all powers delegated to him. Okoye noted that, consequently, the Administrative Secretary of Cross River State has been directed to oversee the office and take over the functions and duties of the REC until further notice. “The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Cross River State of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Dr. Frankland Briyai yesterday addressed the Media to the effect that he has resigned his position as REC with effect from 8th August 2019 and joined a Political Party on whose platform he intends to contest the November 16, 2019 Governorship Election in Bayelsa State. Although this was done at the Commission’s Cross River State office in Calabar, the Commission is yet to receive any communication on this from Dr. Briyai. “Section 306(2) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria states that the resignation of such appointment takes effect on receipt of the letter of resignation by the appointing authority – in this case the President. “While it is the right of any Commissioner or official of the Commission to resign his or her appointment and join any political party of his/her choice and to aspire for any office or position, INEC frowns at the use of its premises or facilities for any political purpose as this is unlawful and contrary to the Code of Conduct subscribed to by all its officials”, the statement read.  James Kwen, Abuja