Determined to return to the January to December budget cycle, the Presidency has given newly inaugurated Ministers marching orders to work on the 2020 budget to ensure that it is submitted in September, as soon as the National Assembly resumes This was part of the directives passed on to the Ministers on Wednesday by the Secretary to the government of the Federation, SGF, Boss Mustapha. Mustapha asked the Ministers to quickly familiarize themselves with their Permanent Secretaries in their Ministries to workout budget details within the next two weeks. According to the SGF, “You are to familiarize yourselves with the permanent secretaries of various ministries and within this period, set out to work particularly on the budget, and taking cognizance of the fact that we have assured the National Assembly that we are sending the budget immediately they return from the recess” The Senate President had earlier advised the Presidency to submit the budget early to the National Assembly, to enable them pass the budget before proceeding on Christmas holidays in December,  as part of plans to return to the January to December budget cycle. The SGF assured the Ministers that they would receive their ministerial mandates within two weeks, for them to review and take action, within the period. Early passage of the Appropriation laws which had been a major national concern, is seen as a necessary requirement for proper public accountability.  It is also to help government to properly track budget implementation and effective service delivery by the Ministries, Departments and Agencies MDAs of government. Mustapha also directed the Ministers to “attach your signatures and return for the purposes of safe keeping and also monitoring and co-ordination” Following the recent retreat, President Buhari had stated that the programme outline a roadmap towards the delivery of Government policies, programmes and projects for 2019-2023. The President had expressed his administration’s determination to improve security, achieve diversified, inclusive economic growth and fight corruption. This is also aimed at building a buoyant economy that supports inclusive growth and creates broad-based prosperity for every Nigerians, as government vowed to absorb the two million Nigerians entering the labour market each year, as well as reduce the backlog of over 20 million unemployed or underemployed Nigerians. After the swearing-in, the Ministers proceeded straight to their offices in appreciation of the challenges facing them, in their new assignments, as President Buhari had charged them on the need to address “the challenges confronting our nation in the best interest of our people and posterity”. According to the President “We must not allow such issues as political affiliation, sectional interest, and primordial loyalties to blind us against our patriotic obligation to drive our nation’s growth, development, and prosperity in an atmosphere of enduring peace, security and stability.