 The Independent National Electoral Commission of Chad has called for the support of Nigeria’s Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC in the conduct of elections in that country. The Vice-Chairman of the Chadian electoral body, Adam Mamahdu, who sought the support, said all other countries and the United Nations (UN) had shunned  their calls for help, a development which he said prompted them to seek help from Nigeria, a country he described as a ‘friend and good brother.’ Speaking when he visited INEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu in Abuja, Mamahdu said the Commission which was established in 2014 was incapable of conducting the parliamentary election, which made the present lawmakers to serve for an additional term of four years. Disclosing that the situation got worse when the country joined the fight against Boko Haram terrorists, he said, “Nigerian officials have been making efforts to put us on the world map of election. INEC, Nigeria supported us in the 2016 presidential election. I hereby state that Nigeria was the first country to support our election in Chad”. Mamahdu noted that even though their first mission to Nigeria was to thank INEC for all the support, the second issue was to seek for the country’s support in organising and conducting their parliamentary election which he said had proven difficult. According to him, one of the problems that made them to keep postponing the election was the Boko Haram insurgency in the Lake Chad. “Today, our armed forces are doing a good job in the Lake Chad basin. Apart from the issue of Boko Haram, Chad supported Mali to combat terrorists in their country. That’s why we are facing challenges in the election conduct. “For that reason, we consider Nigeria as a brother country to help us in organising the election in Chad. I want to make it clear that none of the countries have come to help Chad to conduct its election. We have received some promises from European Union but none have come. “We have taken the matter to bilateral relation, that is why we want Nigeria’s support. And we are sure Nigeria will help the INEC of the Republic of Chad. I belief that the INEC of Nigeria will help that of Chad. We appreciate your availability and the support you will render to Chad,” he said. Responding, Yakubu said INEC had taken note of the request, especially the long overdue parliamentary election which was supposed to have been conducted in 2015 but was postponed several times. The INEC Chairman who was delighted with the acknowledgment of Nigeria in the advancement of democracy in Chad Republic, said Chad Electoral Commission which was just four years old but conducted presidential election was commendable. “You raised a number of issues and I want to respond. On security issues resulting in displacement of the people including voters, we will share with you a frame work for IDP voting, registration of voters and preparation of voter register. All experiences in those areas will be shared. “In preparing for the Parliamentary election, there is need for the participation of people with disability. We will want to advise that we set up two technical teams from Nigeria and Chad. “We will want the Chadian team to come to Nigeria and understudy our election. On our part, we will be happy to send a team to Chad to see how we can collaborate. Be assured that if there is anything of value you think Nigeria can share with Chad in organising this election, consider us as a friend and brother. We will support you in anyway we can,” he stated.