 Ndi-Igbo Germany (NIG), the apex body of all Igbos living and working in the Federal Republic of Germany, has reconfirmed August 17, 2019 as the date for the 2nd Annual Igbo Cultural Festival and Convention scheduled to hold at Löwensaal am Tier Garten, Schmausenbruck Str. 166, 90480 Nürnberg. The organisation also confirmed that Mike Okiro, Nigeria’s former Inspector General of Police,will chair the occasion. Nigeria’s immediate past deputy Senate president, Ike Ekweremadu, president-general of pan-Igbo socio-cultural organisation Ohanaeze Ndigbo, John Nnia Nwodo, and Nigerian Ambassador to Germany, Yusuf Maitama Tuggar, are also expected to add colour to the occasion, according to a press statement signed by Oge Ozofor, NIG coordinator, and Joe-blaise Akanazu, the event committee chairman/NIG deputy coordinator. Themed ‘Reawakening the Igbo Spirit in the 21st century’, the organisers said the objective of the event, among others, is to provide a forum for Ndi-Igbo Diasporans and other stakeholders to network and consult on issues of economic importance and to enable an atmosphere of better, broader cooperation between the German-Nigerian business communities with the aim of boosting investors’ interest and facilitating pragmatic exchange of expertise and transfer of technology to our homeland. “The event is part of our initiatives to expedite the integration of Nigerians in Germany into national development, by synchronising the activities of our diaspora groups with home-based organisations,” the organisation said in the press statement. “The event is an opportunity to demonstrate our unity, to showcase the richness of our culture, our resilient and adaptable spirit, our unanimity in identifying with the high standard of our forebears and heroes of past,” it said. Also expected to attend are Suleiman Dauda Umar, Nigerian Consul-General in Frankfurt; Bianca Ojukwu, wife of the late Gburugburu Ndi Igbo and Ikemba Nnewi, Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu; Innocent Chukwuma, CEO of Innoson Group of Companies, and His Majesty Eze Chukwuemeka Eri, Eze Akajiofo Igbo. Others are Chukwuemeka Ezeife, former governor of Anambra State; Prof Mazi Ojiaku; Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, Ahaejiagamba Ndigbo; John C. Ejinaka, former Nigerian Consul-General Frankfurt; governors of the five South-Eastern states, among others. The statement saidNdi-Igbo Germany (N.I.G) will also use the opportunity to host and honour distinguished sons and daughters of Nigeria who, in spite of all odds, have distinguished themselves in their various fields of endeavour.  MICHAEL ANI