Luno, a global platform that enables users to buy and sell cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum took its talent development drive to the Engineering faculty of the University of Lagos, Nigeria. The event tagged Engineering Career Expo ECX 4.0 organised by the University of Lagos Engineering Society (ULES) is a platform to empower undergraduates in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) line. “It is bringing together burning passion, skills and creative enthusiasm yearly,” a statement from the organisers noted. “It is creating smaller creative ingenious world with a solid backbone and a rock type foundation. The initiative of this clinic is to gain extra points by leveraging on acquired skills to build better equipped graduates in a society where not only packaging but content, above all, sells.” Luno operates in over 40 countries across Europe, Southeast Asia and Africa has seen nearly 3 million people registered on its platform. Last year, the company told BusinessDay that it was embarking on a campaign to grow the knowledge base in the Nigerian cryptocurrency market. Prior to now the company had invested enormous resources in educating its clients on the various aspects of the market. Importantly the company’s learning portal provides valuable informative materials for end-users ensuring they have all the knowledge they need to make informed decisions and also protect their investments. Luno has also carried out Webinars, Meetups and cryptocurrency events to bridge the learning gap both in Nigeria and across Africa, Europe and Southeast Asia. “The only way to address the talent scarcity in the tech ecosystem, especially in fintech where we play, is to invest in young people and that’s why we are excited with this partnership with ULES,” said Chinedu Obidiegwu, community and marketing lead at Luno Nigeria. “At Luno, we have realised that it takes a special kind of mentality to take on the challenge of upgrading the entire planet to a better financial system. We call this our Moontality values  and we put it at the heart of everything we do.”