Presidency on Sunday urged the Global Coalition for Security and Democracy in Nigeria, which is planing a “ revolution” march for Monday, to shelve the idea, adding that change can only come through the ballot box in an election, under the democratic system A statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said the organisation championing the planned action is not fronted by any serious public faces. Presidency, therefore called “on the sponsors and organisers to have the decency to come forward and make their identity known – out of respect to all Nigerians – so that Nigerians can be fully aware in whose name this “revolution” is being proposed and who the beneficiaries may be.” “Following calls circulating on social and digital media, an organisation that calls itself the “Global Coalition for Security and Democracy in Nigeria” plans a “revolution” march tomorrow, Monday 5th August, with the aim of bringing “regime change” in Nigeria without recourse to a nationwide vote. Noting that the President of Nigeria and his administration respect and uphold the right of every Nigerian to peaceful protest and civil campaign– whether to raise awareness on issues, and even oppose the government, Presidency stated that “It is the inalienable right of all citizens of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to do so. Presidency noted that there “is, however, a difference between peaceful call to protest and incitement for a revolution. It reminded the group that Nigeria held simultaneous presidential and parliamentary elections, less than six months ago, adding that “Both contests were won resoundingly by President Muhammadu Buhari and his All-Progressives Congress party” “The campaign was observed, and results were confirmed by international election monitoring groups and observers. The result was even contested by the losing presidential candidate and his party in Court. “The ballot box is the only constitutional means of changing government and a president in Nigeria”, adding that “days of coups and revolutions are over.” “Those making the “revolution’’ call hide behind the veil of social media modernity. But without revealing the identity of their sponsors this shadowy campaign is no better, and no more democratic, than the days of old. “The President calls on all those who seek to use and hide behind everyday citizens to attain power through undemocratic and violent means, which has been alluded, to come out clearly and be identified. “They should lead their march in person. Only then will they begin to have the right to call themselves leaders before the people of Nigeria”