Bench Events, organisers of the Africa Hotel Investment Forum (AHIF) and APO Group, the leading media relations consultancy and press release distribution service, has announced a wideranging collaboration aimed at boosting investment in the hospitality industry in Africa. The deal, which is set to run until 2022, covers the next three editions of AHIF and its Francophone equivalent, the Forum de l’investissement Hôtelier Africain (FIHA). Hotels are crucial in boosting the economies of developing nations. Not only do they drive tourism, encouraging foreign investment and bringing in foreign currencies, they also host important business meetings. All over Africa, international conferences like AHIF help generate huge exposure – while worldclass hotels facilitate day-today business travel for global executives and multinational organizations. Read More :  Nigerian hospitality risks $507m revenue projection in 2020 As Africa grows, it is essential hotel infrastructure develops alongside it, and Bench Events and APO Group are perfectly placed to help raise the profile of the hospitality industry, driving international investment through increased media exposure. AHIF 2019 takes place at the Sheraton Hotel in Addis Ababa from September 2325, 2019, while the next FIHA conference will be held in March 2020. Bench Events has consistently ensured that AHIF and FIHA attract the highest calibre international hotel investors of any conference in Africa, connecting business leaders from international and local markets, driving investment into hotel development and other hospitality and tourism oriented projects across the continent. The latest edition of AHIF is predicted to be the biggest event of its kind ever staged in Africa, generating millions of dollars for the local economy, and billions for the continent as a whole. Among the over 600 attendees will be senior figures from the Marriott, Hilton, Accorhotels and Radisson hotel groups, while speakers include key influencers from the global hospitality investment industry. APO Group’s involvement in the conference highlights their credentials as the most influential media distribution experts in Africa and the Middle East. In recent years, the consultancy has worked closely with some of the biggest players in the hospitality and wider tourism industries.