There is confusion over who conducted a search on the Epe and Park View, Ikoyi homes of former governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode. While the ex-governor through his media aide, Habib Aruna, confirmed the search and urged his supporters to remain calm, spokesperson of the EFCC, Tony Orilade, denied that the operatives of the anti-graft agency raided Ambode’s home, as reported in the media. The former governor, who reacted to the development in a statement titled “EFCC search: No cause for alarm,” urged his supporters and the general public to remain calm and law-abiding as there is no cause for alarm. Ambode in the statement said that the operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) conducted a search on his Epe country home and Parkview Ikoyi residence without any incident, adding, however, that the commission, till date, has not opened any direct communication with him on any issue. The former governor said he was ready and willing to respond if or when the commission decided to open communication with him on any allegation. “This morning, operatives of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission visited the Epe country home and Parkview Ikoyi residence of Akinwunmi Ambode, former governor of Lagos State, with warrants to conduct a search. These searches were carried out extensively and at the end of the exercise the operatives left without any incident. “The former governor reiterates that the EFCC has till date not had any direct communication with him on any subject matter whatsoever and if or when it occurs he is ready and willing to respond. “The former governor wishes to assure his supporters and the generality of Lagosians to continue to remain calm and law-abiding as there is no cause for alarm.” Ambode reiterated his belief in the rule of law and due process, adding that he remains grateful for the opportunity to have served Lagos State diligently and conscientiously. It would be recalled that Ambode, in an earlier response to allegations by the EFCC that it had frozen certain accounts linked to him, insisted that no account of his contained N9.9 billion let alone being frozen by the commission as those accounts were opened and operated by the Lagos State government. Spokesperson of the EFCC, Orilade, had earlier denied reports that operatives of the commission raided Ambode’s homes but confirmed that the former was being investigated. “We need to state for the records that the EFCC did not raid Ambode’s house. It is instructive that his administration, like other former governors is under investigation, since they no longer constitutionally enjoy immunity against prosecution. The commission hereby states with high sense of responsibility that the operatives did not raid Ambode’s residence.” Orilade, however, added that whatever the commission is presently doing with regards to the investigation is in line with its mandate and the rule of law. “As a tradition, the commission does not carry out investigation on the pages of the newspapers or through the media. Our operations are always covert until at a time when we file charges in court. Therefore, the attempt to cast the commission in a bad light is unacceptable as the EFCC will never engage in illegal act. We remain committed to the war against corruption,” Orilade said.  JOSHUA BASSEY