Samsung has unveiled the Galaxy Note10 and Note 10 plus, a new line of premium smartphones that combines elegant design with powerful performance and productivity tools to help users make the most of every moment. Packed with several creativity tools, enhanced S Pen and pro-grade camera and inspired by a generation that flows seamlessly between work and life, Samsung says the Galaxy Note10 gives users the freedom to work the way they want and showcase their creative spirit, all on-the-go. “From the very beginning, the Galaxy Note has stood for the best-of-the-best technologies and features. The Galaxy Note10 re-imagines this promise for the modern Note fan who uses their smartphone to take their productivity and creativity to the next-level, and who effortlessly flows between ideas and endeavours at a moment’s notice,” said David Suh, managing director, Samsung Electronics West Africa. “Every element of Galaxy Note10 was designed to help users achieve more. Whether they’re finishing a big project for work, capturing and editing a video, or playing their favourite mobile game, the Galaxy Note10 will help them do it faster and better,” Suh added. For the first time ever, the Galaxy Note comes in two sizes. The Galaxy Note10 opens up the Note to users who want the power of the S Pen and ultimate productivity in a compact form factor, packing a 6.3-inch cinematic infinity display into the most compact Note yet. The Galaxy Note10+ features the biggest Note display ever with a 6.8-inch cinematic infinity display. Unique features: Handwriting to text: The Galaxy Note10 brings a powerful new capability to the re-designed, uni-body S Pen. Now, users can jot down notes, instantly convert their handwriting to digital text in Samsung Notes, and export it to a variety of different formats, including Microsoft Word. Users can now customise notes by shrinking, enlarging, or changing the colour of the text. In just a few taps, meeting minutes can be formatted and shared; bursts of inspiration can quickly become editable documents. Evolution of the S Pen: Note10 builds on the Bluetooth low energy-enabled S Pen capabilities introduced on the Note9 by adding air actions, allowing you to control certain aspects of the device using gestures with the S Pen. By opening up the Air actions SDK, developers can create customised controls that give users the ability to play games or use their favourite applications using gestures. Samsung DeX for PC: Galaxy Note10 extends Samsung DeX’s capabilities, making it easier for users to work between their phone and a PC or Mac. With a simple, compatible USB connection, users can drag and drop files between devices, and use their favourite mobile apps with a mouse and a keyboard, while keeping their data secure on their phone through Samsung Knox. Link to Windows: Galaxy Note10 integrates link to Windows directly into the quick panel. With one click, users can connect to their Windows 10 PC. There, they can see notifications, send and receive messages, and review recent photos without pausing to look down at their phone. Pro-grade camera: With the Galaxy Note10, content creators and everyday users alike can use state-of-the-art tools to capture stunning video and photos—allowing their channels, stories and posts to stand out and make an impact. Featuring a combination of advanced imaging technology and software, the Galaxy Note10 elevates mobile videography and photography to the next level. With LTE and 5G-ready options, Note10 users can take full advantage of their carriers’ fastest speeds. Galaxy Note10+ 5G harnesses the full power of the next generation network for streaming high resolution video, downloading content hyper fast, and streaming graphics-heavy games in real time. The Galaxy Note10 and Galaxy Note10+ will be available in Aura Glow, Aura White and Aura Black in stores and online from 9th September 2019. Customers in Nigeria can pre-order for both devices starting from 6th August 2019 until 6th September 2019. Samsung has also announced that for every Galaxy Note 10 or Galaxy Note+ pre-ordered, customers will receive a pair of Galaxy Buds worth NGN 45,000 and enjoy free screen repair discount worth NGN 70,000 which is valid till the end of 2019. Pre-ordered devices can be redeemed from 9th until 29th September 2019.