Xpress Payment Solutions Limited, a wholly owned Nigerian financial technology company that specializes in the design, implementation and provision of electronic payment solutions, is repositioning itself to lead in the Fintech space with the planned launch of its unique digital offerings which promote financial inclusion. The company which has processed transactions of over N1.3 trillion on its switch and payment gateway, over N75.3 billion point of sales (POS) transactions and a value of N411.4 billion collections and funds disbursed on its platform since it commenced operation in June 2016, is planning to seriously up its game and officially launch the company and its wide array of financial technology solutions to the general public on September 4, 2019. Speaking at a press briefing held at the company’s headquarters in Lagos, Oluwadare Owolabi, managing director and chief executive officer, Xpress Payment Solutions Limited said that the company operates a business philosophy of Business to Business(B2B), Business to Government(B2G) and Business to consumer (B2C). He went further to establish that the company has been successfully carrying out transactions, and there is an urgent need to bring stakeholders on board in a bid to publicize and reposition themselves in the increasingly cluttered fintech space in Nigeria. According to him, the company’s corporate strategy pillars are to provide smart living solutions, stress free experience, leading edge technology and a winning team. Xpress Payment Solutions Limited is licensed as a Payment Terminal Service Provider and is currently ranked 6th by NIBSS out of 22 PTSP players. The company currently manages PoS terminals for over 18 merchant acquirers. Owolabi went further to reveal that the company stands at a vantage point by providing solutions that are innovative yet simplistic which he believes has provided the company with a competitive advantage over their competitors.
He explicated that a detailed study of the market provided insight for the company, these insights he believes have been successfully synched into a workable idea to provide seamless financial solutions to all customers across all landscapes. The company is set to launch its Xpress e-cashier; a multi-account and multi bank collection platform designed to enable banks via their branches collect funds on behalf of public and private sector clients, religious organizations etc. PayXpress; a value added service (VAS) platform, Xpress payout; a web-based multi-account, multi-bank solution capable of handling high single and large volume bulk payments to beneficiaries whilst providing a wide range of customizable and detailed reports. It is specially designed to manage salary payments, pension payments, payments to vendors etc. It will also launch ist Xpress view; a platform that provides a single dashboard view of account balances across multiple banks, Xpress Reg; a web-based vehicle administration and registration solution capable of handling vehicle registration and license renewal, road worthiness, hackney permit, number plate issuance and payment and Xpress Agent; an agency banking platform which offers customers an additional income stream, as well as its Xpress Pay settlement; a funds sweeping solution that ensures automated sweeping of client’s funds in various accounts in multiple banks into a chosen bank account.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson