The technology of television keeps evolving, as newer and more advanced systems are developed over time. By the turn of the 20th century, it was technically feasible to replace the analog signals for television broadcasting with digital signals. Many television viewers no longer use an antenna to receive over-the-air broadcasts, instead relying on cable television systems which are now integrated with telephone, internet services and more advanced technologies. There’s no doubt that watching television brings us all together. Even more incredible is the fact that you can now do so much with advanced connected TVs. Television history has been a remarkable march from standard definition to high definition (HD) to 4K. And now Samsung is again leading the way as the first to bring 8K to the market. 8K delivers four times the resolution of 4K and 16 times the resolution of FHD, which transforms flat images into a deeper, more lifelike experience. We all got used to watching 1080p TV, and then it got to viewing on 2K, then 4K, now we’re seeing “upping the game” at its best, with Samsung unveiling its QLED 8K TV. Older TVs and many 32-inch models sold, have over a million pixels (720p). More recent and slightly larger TVs (mostly 49 inches and below) have a little over 2 million pixels (1080p). Newer and bigger TVs (typically 50 inches and above, although many smaller sizes too) have 8 million pixels (for 4K Ultra HD). The newest and largest TVs have over 33 million pixels (8K). The Quantum High Dynamic Range (HDR) delivers unprecedented depth of picture clarity, illuminating the smallest details in every scene. The brightest bright and blackest of blacks make colours look and feel significantly more vibrant and realistic. With this feature, users are closer than they can imagine to their favourite shows or documentaries and can even notice the smallest details, almost like they are immersed in a perfected reality. Even if it wasn’t shot on an 8K camera, the TV will enhance the picture resolution using Artificial Intelligence upscaling feature to deliver the most outstanding 8K viewing experience. Featuring the best HDR quality that there is to TVs, HDR 4000+, users can now enjoy the exact expectations directors intended when creating movies, not missing the minute details even in the dark, especially in horror movies. The standard powerful range on most TVs demonstrates a limited quantity of shading and difference that the human eye can see, while TVs with the new HDR innovation offers a more insightful degree of contrast, richness, and brightness. HDR is one of the most recent advancements in TV tech, only being used by a few unique organisations yet. You won’t find 8K TV without HDR. Another very interesting feature about this new TV technology is its ability to blend with the interior decoration of any home, simply by choosing wallpaper backgrounds to match from the samples, or just taking a picture and uploading to the TV from your photos giving the room a magnificent look and feel thanks to the Ambient Mode feature. The TV can also double as a piece of art in the living room or blend into the wall when wall-mounted as it can easily mimic the pattern on the wall behind the TV to create an astonishing visual effect in which the TV blends seamlessly into the wall. If you are not watching TV, you won’t see a TV. The QLED 8K TV also comes designed with a really flat and classy exterior, which makes it an easy fit and design for any home. Using Samsung’s proprietary No Gap Wall-Mount, when mounted on the wall, it leaves no gap or space between the wall and the television. The Q900R-series QLED TV comes with One Invisible Connection – an almost invisible fibre optics cable that transfers power, video, audio and network. It is also easy to wrap the wires around the back of the TV to hide them. It doesn’t end there, Samsung’s One Connect Box also comes with the package allowing users connect all their equipment in one box, with all the ports needed; from HDMI to USB, etc. to declutter space in your home and to allow for people who love tidiness to have peace of mind. Which means users can connect their laptop, phones or any other device using the One Connect Box, a brilliant way to minimize space. The included One Remote Control is stylishly designed, with a gorgeous all-metal construction. It is comfortable to hold, easy to use with one hand, and has a microphone for voice control. Samsung has also included direct access buttons for Netflix and Amazon along the bottom. But if users decide remote controls just aren’t their thing, they can use their mobile phones to control all the features on the TV. Also, instead of tapping on buttons, the remote control uses Google speech recognition which allows users say whatever they want and it does just that. Another interesting and exciting feature of the QLED 8K TV is the ability of users to enjoy viewing their pictures or videos from their iPhone and even playlists and podcasts from their iPads on their Samsung TV. With AirPlay 2 feature available on select 2018 and 2019 Samsung TV models, users will be able to stream shows, movies, and music, and cast images from all their Apple devices directly to the Samsung QLED 8K TV. With the Ultra-Wide Viewing Angle feature, the 8K TVs are engineered to reduce glare and enhance colour, providing a vibrant picture no matter where you sit. Intelligent mode allows the TV adapt the picture brightness and sound to match the conditions of the room. The Q900R-Series QLED 8K TV features an impeccable picture quality, inspiring style, and ingenious ways for users to find content. The company has definitely put a lot of thought into creating a device that would not only serve as an entertainment tool but also add to the glamour and panache that Samsung products bring to the home. With this new TV, Samsung Electronics is set to maintain its market leadership in the TV segment.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson