Governance in Lagos will go full throttle this week, as the state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu is expected to swear in the 38 commissioner and special adviser nominees recently screened by the state House of Assembly. Sanwo-Olu is also expected to assign port folios to the  commissioners and special advisers, some of whom had served in the state cabinet in previous administrations. Among such is Tunji Bello, the immediate past secretary to the state government, who, before then, had served twice as commissioner for the environment in the administrations of Bola Tinubu and Babatunde Fashola. Also in this category is Gbolahan Lawal, immediate past commissioner for housing in the Akinwumi Ambode administration, and commissioner for agriculture, under Fashola. Sanwo-olu dropped the hint while playing host to retired heads of service and permanent secretaries in the Lagos public service, weekend, saying the new cabinet would be inaugurated on Tuesday (tomorrow). According to him, the wheel of governance would be in full gear before the end of this week, in fulfillment of his campaign promise to inaugurate his cabinet within 90 days. According to Sanwo-Olu, the recently appointeed new permanent secretaries in the state would also be sworn in on Monday to complement the commissioners and special advisers expected to come in on Tuesday. “Next week, by God’s grace, we are swearing in all other complements of cabinet and also permanent secretaries to have the engine of governance on full swing. At that point, we believe that all the campaign promises we made can come to reality and Lagosians can benefit more from the choice they made at the last election.” The cabinet members are expected to be allocated their individual ministries during the inauguration ceremony, scheduledsecretariest 9am. The governor described the body of retired civil servants as “valuable assets” to the state, noting that their actions while in service contributed to the “enviable height” Lagos attained among states in the nation.