 In a bid to close the knowledge gap between academic institutions and the job market, financial technology firm InfoWARE Limited has partnered with Pan Atlantic University (PAU) on the integration of Market Data Terminal in its curriculum. This collaboration will improve the employability of PAU students in the financial market and also help students prepare for the financial sector which will not only make them employable by big players in the asset management space but would also help them garner experience and give them a competitive advantage over their peers. Academic Director Planning of the Pan-Atlantic University Olusegun Vincent said the innovative partnership is the first of its kind in Nigeria as PAU will be the first University in Nigeria to leverage the Bloomberg-like terminal. “The collaboration was designed to provide solutions to banks and companies involved in the financial markets,” Vincent said. Uwa Agbonile, CEO at InfoWARE Limited, in his remarks, said the essence of the collaboration was to explore how to incorporate Infoware Market Data Terminal (IMDT) into the University academic curriculum. Agbonile noted that InfoWARE remains committed to impacting its community, and also ensuring that graduates from PAU have the requisite skills to compete in the global market. InfoWARE’s Solution Account Manager Nnenna Okoronkwo said the partnership with Pan-Atlantic University was an opportunity to improve the skills of the students in investment banking. “Most of the capital market in Nigeria runs on the InfoWARE terminal; this will be of benefit to the students when they graduate, as they acquire practical skills and experience in investment banking,” Okoronkwo said. Okonkwo also added that the collaboration with the University would impart real-time market knowledge to the students. The Head of Department of Accounting of the PAU, Onafowokan Oluyombo said what the students would benefit from the training is enormous. He thanked InfoWARE for the opportunity to collaborate and noted that the partnership would help to generate extra income for the faculty. Also, after students get trained in class, they will have the opportunity to learn how to trade using real-time market data via “GrowMyKudi” – a product InfoWARE would launch in the coming months for students and investment enthusiasts to explore real-time market data to virtually invest and place trades. Users of the platform would be able to buy and sell underlying assets leveraging Robo-Advisory -instructions, build an investment-based portfolio, execute market orders, get investment education, and access a great community of traders and investment enthusiasts.