Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State says before the first quarter of 2020, Oyo State would have become a major investors’ destination in Nigeria, as the state partners Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), Nigerian Maritime Administrative and Safety Agency (NIMASA) and the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria Commission (DAWN Commission). Segun Ogunwuyi, executive assistant to the governor on Investment Promotion and Public Private Partnership, made this disclosure when he paid courtesy visits to Federal Government agencies in Ibadan. Ogunwuyi, who was a former member of the Federal House of Representatives, said Oyo State was positioned to benefit maximally from partnership with the agencies in its quest to revive moribund state industries and assets in order to bring about progressive commercial climate to the state as a whole. Speaking at the Ibadan office of DAWN Commission, Ogunwuyi pointed out that the state could not wait to fast track activities towards achieving financial independence through revitalisation of state-owned industries that would soon be co-owned by private individuals and corporate bodies. He promised Seye Oyeleye, the director-general of the Commission, that the state was ready to key into the programmes of DAWN Commission for the aim of promoting investment in the state. “We appreciate the DAWN Commission for her pivotal role in the region on integration and development. Oyo State is on board with InvestWest 2020. The administration of His Excellency Seyi Makinde is ready and open for investment, especially in the area of resuscitating the state moribund companies and assets through PPP. “Other areas of interest the state is working on is to improve the business environment in Oyo State and make it more conducive. We know this is where DAWN Commission has been active at the regional level. “Also, we are interested in having a functional investment promotion agencies backed by law in Southwest, likewise the recreation of Dugbe as Central Business District (CBD) while maximising the economic opportunities of the Lagos – Ibadan Railway project through the rail routes and stations.” Seye Oyeleye, the DAWN Commission director-general, while welcoming the entourage from the state government, said the body was planning towards the Western Nigeria Investment Summit (InvestWest) 2020, calling for collaboration from the state. Oyeleye thanked the Executive Assistant and his team for deeming it necessary to visit the office, asking newly appointed cabinet members across the region to do same. At the NIPC office, the head of the Ibadan zone, Lawal Hassan, appreciated the efforts of the state administration on revamping local industries and thereby promoting investments and employment opportunities. “Investment promotion is expensive but required in order to create wealth and job opportunities. The list of moribund companies will be needed for profiling by the Commission. Before long, the state will become the preferred destination for investors,” he said. REMY FEYISIPO