The Department of State Security (DSS) has approached a Federal High Court in Abuja seeking an order to detain Omoyele Sowore, publisher of the online medium Sahara Reporters and convener of the #Revolutionnow protest, for 90 days. Sowore, the presidential candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC) in the February 23, 2019 election, had called for a protest to begin August 5, termed Revolution Now, to draw attention of the ruling class to the suffering of the masses. However, he was arrested last weekend in Lagos and moved to the DSS office in Abuja, where he is currently detained. In the application before vacation judge, Justice Taiwo Taiwo, the secret police, which said Sowore was arrested on account of the #Revolutionnow protest which he had spearheaded, is asking for court order to detain him for 90 days pending the conclusion of its investigation. The ex-parte motion by the DSS marked FHC/ABJ/CS/ 915/19 is seeking the order of the court to detain Sowore beyond the 48 hours of his arrest required by law. However, after listening to the motion which was moved by counsel for the DSS, G. O. Abadua, Justice Taiwo said he needed time to watch the video clips attached to the motion. He, accordingly, adjourned to Thursday, August 8, for ruling. Meanwhile, six persons including a lawyer arrested by the operatives of the Lagos police command on Monday in connection with the “Revolutionnow Protests” were on Tuesday arraigned in court. They were arraigned before an Ebute Metta Chief Magistrate Court on a two-count charge of unlawful assembly and conduct likely to cause breach of the peace, to which they all pleaded not guilty, Businessday gathered. Human rights lawyer, Femi Falana, on Tuesday faulted the continued detention of Sowore by the DSS without trial. Falana, who spoke in Lagos, said the right of Nigerian citizens to protest was guaranteed under the constitution and where any person is perceived to have violated any law, it was expected to be put on trial and not illegal detention which violates his right as a citizen. Equally miffed by the DSS’ action is former Kaduna State governor, Balarabe Musa, who called for the immediate release of Sowore. Musa in an interview with Businessday said that the citizens have constitutional rights to embark on legitimate protest where the government is failing in its responsibility of providing good governance.