A leading brands and marketing publication, Brand Communicator, has announced the third edition of its annual Women in Marketing and Communications Conference/Awards (WIMCA) event scheduled to hold on August 30, 2019 at Muson Centre, Lagos. Confirmed to speak at the conference as Keynote speaker is Ademola Adebise, MD/CEO of Wema Bank, who will be speaking on the theme ‘Better the Balance in the Brands and Marketing Communications Industry.’ Also, John Ugbe, CEO, MultiChoice and Ndidi Nnoli-Edozien, group chief, Sustainability & Governance, Dangote Industries Limited, are expected to speak on the sub-themes ‘Innovating for Change: Contemporary Trends in Marketing to Women’ and ‘Better the Balance In The Work Place; Equity or Equality?’ in the first and second sessions respectively as keynote speakers. Other notable experts expected to speak at the event as panellists and moderators are: Bukola Bandele, marketing director, PZ Cussons, Cool World; Bridget Oyefeso, head, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Stanbic IBTC; Chris Wulf-Ceaser, marketing director, Friesland Campina Wamco; Tolulope Adedeji, marketing director, ABInBev West Africa; Emmanuel Agu, marketing director, Jotna Group; Omobolanle Victor-Laniyan, head, Sustainability, Access Bank; Charles Nnochiri, head of marketing, PZ Cussons; Caroline Oghuma, public relations manager, MultiChoice Nigeria, Tosin Adefeko, managing partner, AT3 Resources, among others. WIMCA is the foremost thought leadership platform for insights and contemporary trends in engaging female consumers and at the same time recognising outstanding women and corporate organizations for their contributions to the growth of their various industries and the country at large. It is a free to attend event, however, registration is required online at http://wimca.ng/ Speaking on the objective of the conference and awards, Joshua Ajayi, convener of WIMCA, publisher of Brand Communicator, said: “WIMCA this year will be bigger and better, as experts spread across industries have confirmed to speak. Interestingly, the objective of the event remains the same which is to serve a mentorship platform for young and prospective female professionals to ignite their potential towards attaining enviable heights in marketing, management, as well as inspire the entrepreneurial spirit in women towards creating and sustaining enduring marketing and communications industry businesses. “It is also a platform dedicated to celebrate women of outstanding achievements in the marketing and communications industry while creating a platform for networking among them.” WIMCA since inception has been a platform that recognises and rewards excellent female professionals, brands and organisations for their contributions to their various industries and the country at large.