Chika Nwokedi, a philanthropist and business mogul was a governorship aspirant in Imo State in the March gubernatorial election on the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). In this exclusive interview with INIOBONG IWOK, he said that President Muhammadu Buhari must be decisive in tackling the current security challenges in the country. He also spoke on other issues in the polity. Excerpts: How would you assess the Emeka Ihedioha administration in the last few months in Imo State? During my governorship campaign and even on my posters, I wrote that Imo State shall be great again with me or someone else as governor of the state. But people asked me why did you say so? My reply to them was that because it is not by force to be the governor of Imo State. But, whoever that is governor of the state is someone that is chosen by God. I see and believe that Imo State shall be great again. Ihedioha just assumed the position of the governor of Imo State; there is nothing I can say until after one year; there are eyes on him. I would comment later, for now, let’s allow him to work. What should be Ihediohia’s immediate task? His immediate task should be creating jobs for the citizenry, for the teeming youths of the state. Security is an issue, but if there is no job you cannot achieve much.  The governor cannot do it alone, there is need to give people free education.  He needs to know what is good and bad. Most importantly, as I am talking to you now, there is no road in Imo State; the roads are in a poor state. I just came back from the village some days ago; all the roads Okorocha did like 30 roads, about 18 of the roads are now bad and not motorable. I went there and I saw them; in one of the roads in Orlu, the bridge collapsed because there was no rod put to support it when it was being constructed. And you know when you are governor; your tenure is just for some time and after some time you leave office. So, let people feel your impact. Look at the former governor of Imo State, he knew he did not perform and it would haunt him. What is your view about the newly inaugurated state’s asset recovery committee; Okorocha’s daughter accused a member of the committee of slapping her recently? I am not aware of that; I don’t believe all that we read in the newspaper. Every government has a right to recover stolen state property. I saw some messages on the social media that a lot of the property stolen of Imo State has been recovered. How do you react to the worsening security situation in the country; you are close to the police authorities and the APC government? Let us leave APC or SDP alone. Let us look at how we are going to make the country work. We don’t need that now, what we need to do is to collectively join hand to move the country forward. There is no security in the country; the lives of the people are not secured. I was attacked at Benin toll gate recently; they pursued me all the way to Ore; they wanted to kidnap me, but immediately they stopped me and attempted pulling their gun I zoomed off. They chased me and started firing at my car, but they could not succeed. They were four boys, kidnappers, they wanted me to park and they brought out guns and pursued me, until they got to the check point where there were security personnel. So, it is scary; there is no security in Nigeria; things have gotten out of hand. I don’t know if they were robbers or kidnappers. Some Nigerians have accused the President of not doing enough; what is your take on this? Yes, but I think the President has appointed people to work and deal with this issue, but they are not working or giving him good advice. Buhari does not watch television or read newspapers. Nigeria is a large country with enormous problems, the current President is not like former President, Olusegun Obasanjo, who as a president does not read papers, but moves around and monitor what is happening across the country and know what is happening. So, let Buhari move out and know what Nigerians are going through. The people are suffering and the security situation is worsening. Let him come to Lagos by road. Let him move from Abuja to Kaduna by road, he would know how bad the state of the roads is. But he is always flying, how can someone that is appointed Minister of Works be traveling by air? Let him travel by road so that he can see the state of the roads in the country. But we all have a role to play, it is not all about Buhari alone; we are one Nigeria, let all of us check ourselves and our actions. But the government said they are installing CCTV and drones on our major highways? Are you in this country? Did you not see the large amount that was used to purchase CCTV and drones in the previous administration, where are they now? It is a failed project before arrival. The thing can’t work; anyone can curtail crime if they are serious about it, but we know they are not. So, they know what they should do; let us see if it would go a long way in solving the security situation if it is deployed. Have you thought about joining the ruling party in your state, or are you thinking of quitting politics? For now, I am not a member of any party. I went and I saw things for myself. Nigerian politics is not for men of God, I believe God that I would be back in 2023. Things are so bad that even if majority of the electorate come out and say they want me, it would not be like that because of the kind of electoral system that we operate now. As far as I am concerned, I have experience in politics now which would help me in 2023; if God says I should be there, he would take me there. But mark my word, I cannot kill because I want to rule. That is why when I say Imo shall be great again with me or without me. I am praying for the people, who are there, I will give them support because I know one day I will be there. What I am thinking now I came out in 2019 after election let us focus on governance, how this country would be good. It is how we plan that we would be. I cannot quit politics because I want to serve my people. I have been helping the less-privileged with several ways with my little resources. Can you imagine what I would do for the people if I become the governor of the state? I don’t have money but I build four houses for my people; I initiated boreholes, I have been helping people, with what God gives me. During the Obasanjo administration, ministers were asked to take a bow and go by the federal lawmakers during screening. I am not an APC man, but we must say the truth. I am sure they know what they are doing. What does this latest honour from your community mean to you? I was surprised when someone forwarded me a picture of myself which was taken in 1995; after I had just collected my first Chieftaincy title; I was very young. Recently, I received a letter from leaders of my community that they wanted to honour me with a chieftaincy title, but I said no. However, after speaking with my brothers, they advised me to accept the chieftaincy title; that it is an honour. But the ceremony coincided with my birthday and the dedication of my child. I said how I would travel for the ceremony and again go for the new yam festival, but I have decided to take the chieftaincy title because it is an honour based on what I have done for them. I have taken chieftaincy titles everywhere across the Southeast; there is another one here; they are giving me in Mushin, Lagos, in December. What make this unique is to give me courage to do more because it is an honour for me. Right now, there is no road to enter my community and it is shameful. Rochas Okorocha is my brother; we are from the same place in Ideato. My place to his area is about five-minute drive, but he did not build any road in the community; that is why I came out to contest for the governorship ticket of the SDP. The roads are bad, now I have sent money for them to do the major road because my friends are coming from across the country for the ceremony. I have given borehole to the people in my constituency; we are doing a lot there.