 Nigeria’s intermodal logistics firm Jhaki has launched a  digital platform that will help shippers including  importers and manufacturers enjoy painless and easy movement of goods within the country by connecting them with truck owners and other carriers. According to Brainerd Odiete, Director of Strategy and Growth Initiatives of CRS Intermodal Group and promoters of Jhaki.com, the platform seeks to empower carriers and intelligently moving freight will create unprecedented economic opportunities in the logistics space while allowing shippers to book reliable, affordable and high-quality loads. Odiete further explained that customers changing behaviour and expectations will have the greatest impact on logistics going forward as Jhaki seeks to evolve a customer-centric logistics business enabled by the latest and most reliable technologies. “Both individuals and businesses expect to get goods faster, more flexible, and – in the case of consumers – at low or no delivery cost,” Odiete said in a press statement. Similar to advanced technologies for taxi hailing, the Jhaki Platform features include advanced booking, real time tracking, proof of delivery, automated receipts and a fair pricing structure. The platform which launched in June 2019 has already served several customers connecting them to pre-qualified and verified carriers registered on the Jhaki.com platform.  “This promises lower costs, improved efficiency, and the opportunity to make genuine breakthroughs in the way the industry works. ‘digital fitness’ is a challenge for the sector, which is currently lagging many of its customers in this respect. This is where Jhaki seeks to play and dominate – Smart Logistics,”Odiete said. Odiete noted that Jhaki’s value proposition lies in the firm focus on its customers, its deep understanding of their changing needs and preferences and connection to its target customer base. “At Jhaki, we have one goal and that is to make the movement of goods a better experience through the intelligent use of technology, data analytics, and ‘Physical Internet’.” Yemi Kushimo, Marketing and Business Development Lead for Jhaki.com said one thing that sets Jhaki apart from other logistics companies is that Jhaki offers its customers the option of moving goods through road, rail, and inland water. “When logistics practitioners have the advantage of choosing the best mode of transport for their operations, efficiency and profitability will be enhanced. The cost of transport will also reduce thereby improving the quality of service to our customers and the gridlock being currently experienced in some ports will be non-extent,” Kushimo said. Intending customers of Jhaki can start enjoying Jhaki’s smart logistics simply by logging on to the Jhaki website www.jhaki.com or by downloading the mobile app on Google play store to complete a job order form, state their logistics need, get instant pricing and make payment online. Once a job is confirmed, customers can track the status and movement of their goods through a dedicated portal. With Jhaki’s transparent pricing structure, real-time shipment tracking and a rich pool of reliable carriers, we are reinventing freight transportation in Nigeria and Sub-saharan Africa.Whether you are an importer or large manufacturer, Jhaki provides a platform to find reliable carriers and manage all your shipments on one smart and convenient platform. 