The ruling All Progressives Congress, APC has cleared Governor Yahaya Bello, Hassan Abdullahi,  Abubakar Bashir and Blessing Ekele to contest for the party’s governorship ticket in this Thursday’s primaries in Kogi State ahead of the November 16 guber polls holding in the State and Bayelsa. However, 11 aspirants have been disqualified on offences ranging from age falsification, non-finacial membership and invalid nomination forms. According to report signed by APC Screening Chairman for Kogi Governorship Primaries, Hope Uzodinma sighted by journalists,
Mohammed Seidu-Onailu was not cleared for parading two different dates of birth. The report said, “the aspirant admits to it and has no reasonable explanation to give; not a financial member of the party and incomplete nomination form. Usman Jibrin was disqualified for discrepancy in the date of birth, “One, 16/09/1959 and on his passport, 16/09/1960. The aspirants admitted the error and apologised; not a financial member of the party, no evidence of support to the arty and Invalid membership card.” Mustapha Audu was not cleared for invalid nomination process; “not a financial member of the party. No evidence of financial contribution to the party, certificate of birth or declaration of age not attached.” Hadiza Iyoma Ibrahim, was disqualified for “No supporting document/credentials, buy only police extract, invalid nomination by members of the party and Not a financial member of the party.” Yahaya Odidi Audu, was not cleared for invalid declaration of age and not a financial member of the party. Sani Lulu Abdullahi, was not cleared for not being a financial member of the party and not registered in his ward. Patrick Akpa, was screened out for “Unsigned and invalid nomination form and not a financial member of the party.” Danlami Mohammed, was denied for “Not financial member of the party, invalid party membership card and invalid nomination.” Yakubu Mohammed, was screened out for “Not a financial member of the party and invalid nomination.” Babatunde Kunle-Irukera, was said to have an “invalid declaration of age, spent less than one in the party and without waiver, Academic credentials and supporting documents not attached, committed party member and nomination form not duly signed.” Rukkaya Ibrahim, was screened out for “incomplete nomination form, no PVC, invalid declaration of age and not a committed party member. Mohammaed Abubakar Audu, was not cleared for “Invalid nomination form, not  financial member of the party.” The report indicated that “the committee received two separate sets of petitions against some of the aspirants and are hereby attached. The screening was concluded at about 9.30pm. “We thank and appreciate the APC National Working Committee led by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole for the confidence reposed on the chairman and member of the committee and hope that the committee’s recommendations will bring peace, harmony and unity that will ensure the victory of the party at the November 16 general election.” As at the close of sales and submission of expression of interest and nomination forms last Wednesday, 16 aspirants had bought and returned their forms out of four have been successfully screened and  10 screened out.  James Kwen, Abuja