Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State has appointed a renowned professor of capital market, Uche Uwaleke, as the state’s new Commissioner of Finance. A case of a round peg in a round hole, Uwaleke is the immediate past Head of Banking and Finance Department at the Nasarawa State University Keffi and currently the chief economist/director of research at the Securities and Exchange Commission, Nigeria. An astute scholar and economic analyst, Uwaleke is a contributor to Nigeria’s leading business and financial intelligence, BusinessDay. A thoroughbred professional, he is a Chartered Stockbroker (ACS), a Chartered Banker (ACIB) and a Chartered Accountant (FCA), all by examination. He is also an Associate member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (ACTI), the Institute of Capital Market Registrars (ACMR) and a full member of the Nigerian Economic Society (MNES). A multi-disciplinary Scholar, he holds a B.Sc degree in Accounting, an M.Sc in Economics (specialising in Finance) and a Ph.D in Finance with over 20 years of lecturing engagements in reputable higher institutions in Nigeria. Prior to joining Nasarawa State University as a pioneer staff in the faculty of Administration, he had worked as an Investment Banker with Lombard Assets Management Limited as the Head of Research. Uwaleke was at one time a chief examiner for the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria examination (Business & Finance paper) and an external examiner to the University of Jos and Ahmadu Bello University Zaria. He has participated in several NUC (National Universities Commission), ICAN and CIBN accreditation teams for accounting, finance and banking programmes of Universities and Training Institutes. He is the Chairman of the editorial Board of the ‘Nigerian Journal of Securities Markets,’ a publication of the Securities and Exchange Commission Nigeria as well as a Reviewer for the Central Bank of Nigeria ‘Bullion’ publication. He was also a member of the Nigerian Stock Exchange Branch Advisory Committee and a Non-Executive Director in Peace Capital Market Limited. He is the President of the Association of Capital Market academics of Nigeria and the Chairman of the Abuja branch of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria. He has consulted for a number of local and international organisations including the Central Bank of Nigeria, Securities and Exchange Commission, the German Technical Cooperation (giz) and the Korea Development Institute. He has authored/co-authored 10 books in Finance (mostly in the area of capital markets) with over 50 articles in referred academic journals. He maintains regular columns in the Punch and Business Day Newspapers and also features in finance and economy programmes of national radio and television stations. Without a doubt, this solid background will rub off positively on the financial position of Imo State, as he will be bringing in his wealth of experience and academic achievements to the development of Imo State, and delivering of dividends of democray to the people. Uwaleke will be serving in the state executive council alongside a former minister of state for education, Viola Onwuliri, Chuma Nnaji, Reginald Ihebuzor, Emeka Felix Ebiliekwe, Benjamin Nnamdi Ekwueme, Uchenna, Nicholas Anaya Amaefule, Chijioke Christopher Nzekwe, Ekezie Okeahialam, Meekamkwue-maihum Mgbenwelu, Umez-Eronini Unaeze, Ibekwe Imma, Vincent Udokwu, Bon Unachukwu, Sly Enwerem, Emmanuel Nwaogu, and Tony Okere.  JOHN OSADOLOR