Lynda Chuba-Ikpeazu of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), representing Onitsha North/South Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, has described her recent appointment as the leader of South East caucus as a “tall responsibility.” She said although she felt honoured for the choice, she did not see the position as an avenue for lording it over her colleagues but to join hands with them as equal partners in the quest to distribute dividends of democracy to the grassroots level. Ikpeazu made this known to newsmen in her country home, at Onitsha, Anambra State during her thanksgiving service for her re-election, aimed at seeking God’s mercy and abundant grace in her life. “All of us are equal partners but if your peers choose you to lead them, it is a mark of honour and not superiority. “To buttress my point, I must recognise that it is God that gives powers to serve others. I know that the position carries a lot of responsibility, but I hope I will discharge it well with the best of my knowledge,” she said. On the expectations from her in this second tenure, Ikpeazu, who was a one-time Miss Nigeria pageant, stated: “As a member of the National Assembly, you are representing your people.
“You are there to serve them by attracting projects and empowerment programmes that will make them feel the impact of democracy. “I will ensure that I bring projects that will make them feel being part of the country. For now, what we have is one Nigeria and the best thing we can do is to be united and make ourselves equal partakers and stakeholders. “Not spectators in this dispensation. I will ensure that I bring projects not only to my immediate constituency but to the Southeast zone in general.” On her recent suspension by the party hierarchy over alleged anti-party activities arising from the issue of minority leadership of the House, Ikpeazu who attributed it to family matters noted that she received it in good faith as a loyal and committed party member. She affirmed that since she swore an oath to uphold and respect the principles of the constitution of the party, she had to take the suspension in good fate. “It is under the platform of the party that I was elected as a member of the House of Representatives. We are all sponsored by our parties. So, there is no way your party will invite you and you say you won’t come,” she said The lawmaker said that what actually happened was that the invitation from the party came to us on Thursday evening when most of us had already travelled out of Abuja for the weekend. “As such, the minority leader’s office wrote to the party that we were not around that they should give us another date and they were not happy because it was a Special Assistant, SA to the minority leader that signed the letter. “Let me say it clearly that there is nothing wrong with your party inviting you, it was just that we were not available at that particular time, we hadn’t enough notice. “A committee was set up and we appeared before the committee. We are committed to our party, we are very loyal party members, and we are also members of the House. We also swore an oath to uphold and respect the principles and the constitution of the party,” she said.