 The report that Peter Obi,  the vice-presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 presidential election and former governor of Anambra State, was denied an American visa within the week is false, his media aide, Valentine Obienyem , has declared. “As I write, Obi is in the USA now on the invitation of highly-placed officials,’ he said in a statement made available to newsmen in Awka on Saturday. “Rather than face serious issues for the good of the society, some people are busy cooking up and circulating that Obi was denied visa by the USA Embassy,”  Obienyem said. He said that since Obi left the government as Anambra State governor, his records which nobody is even trying to surpass, have continued to speak for him. These records according to him include the fact that the former governor bequeathed over N75 billion to his successor, completed the roads started by his predecessor and constructed massive roads that made Anambra during his time to be regarded as the best in the network of roads. Others include the return of schools to the Church and provision of over N6 billion used to rehabilitate the schools, as well as the provision of two buses to them, internet connectivity, boreholes, sporting equipment, computers, and generators to power them. He said Obi completed the turnaround of selected hospitals, including those owned by the Church; building of a teaching hospital from the scratch; two massive secretariat buildings; paying close to N40 billion arrears of pension and gratuities owned in the state since 1999; attraction of fortune 500 companies to Anambra State whose records are open for everybody to see According to him, Obi also developed the permanent site of the Igbariam Campus of the State University with internal roads constructed;  erection of over 15 solid building at the College of Agriculture, Mgbakwu and amongst other numerous achievements. “The man did simply wonders in the State. Everybody is aware that they have done everything to indict and discredit him, including inviting the personnel of the EFCC to Anambra State, but all come to naught. “When it became apparent that the man is a saint in Nigerian politics, they prayed every day that he could sin a little even out of respect for the frailty of human nature. He said that Obi had remained a saintly politician with an unyielding consistency and that his detractors unable to dictate any fault, are now trying to create some. “The latest of their creation was the story of visa denial. What will they create next?” he asked. 