The Federal Government is partnering Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) to deepen financial literacy in Nigeria. Dennis Fischer, head, Access to finance department, GIZ, speaking at the “Pro-Poor Growth and Promotion of Employment in Nigeria” workshop in Abuja said that the importance of financial literacy cannot be over emphasised, as it remained a key tool for economic development. “The objective of this training is to improve access to financial services and to build financial competencies of owners and employees of micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises as well as other economically active segments of the Nigerian society, with a focus on the special needs of women and the youth,” he said. He said the workshop aimed at building the capacity of certified financial literacy trainers from the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development and other partner organisations that have successfully integrated financial literacy into their activities in cooperation with GIZ-SEDIN. “Financial literacy is important for every economy, especially in Nigeria. We are working with national and international experts, financial literacy trainers and representatives of urban and rural target groups who will further train the larger Nigeria population. This program has enhanced the financial capabilities of nearly 60,000 beneficiaries, through partners who cascade financial literacy to their target groups,” he said. Adamu Usman, youth development officer, ministry of youth and sport, enterprise development and promotion department, stressed that the training is timely, as addressing youth employment remains a major concern for the Nigeria government. “Youth unemployment has remained a major concern for the Nigeria government and it cannot be addressed uprightly except through mitigation and that is what this training stands to achieve by sharpening skills in attending to the needs of the teeming youth. “This training hosts various organisations which are key to the development and engagement of the youths. It promotes networking and partnership among organisations to ensure proper planning of programmes for youth empowerment as well as planning for retirement.” Jennifer Ero, executive director, Society for empowerment of young persons, said that the training would engender financial freedom for the Nigeria society. “The programme will have a positive impact on the youth through the ministries and organisations. We work with the migrants; when they are integrated without a proper knowledge of financial management, the vocational training does not yield the desired results, so this training is timely and useful to us.”