Meeting Manners You have agreed to have a meeting, the date, venue and time have been set. Please ensure that you understand the protocol behind meetings in that country. To play it safe arrive at your meeting place a little earlier than scheduled. Have your own agenda as to what you want to discuss; if possible communicate your agenda to your business colleague. Be vigilant, attentive and alert when discussing. Do more listening and less talking; to get the most out of your meeting. Stay relevant and talk to the point, address areas of concern and agree on moving forward. Meeting manners sets the tone of the kind of business partner you will be, remember you are not at home you are abroad. What is the meeting style of the country you are in? Please find out. Dining Dilemma Your meeting may start formal and end with a social setting involving dining, this is a delicate part of doing business intentionally. How you dine, behave or conduct yourself at the table, speaks to how much decorum, manners and etiquette you have as a professional. From the moment you meet at a restaurant, to placing your order, the use of napkins, navigating the cutlery, chewing of food, drinking and toasting to the discussion you have at the table says a lot. International dining etiquette must be highly considered when dining on the international scene. Watch your table manners, your dining protocol, your conversation skills, and your overall conduct while dining. Enjoy your meal even if it means being adventurous with the food. It is not about the food but the companionship you cultivate while dealing with your possible business partners. Body Basics Your non-verbal actions will always speak louder than words, what you communicate without saying a word is considered more impactful than your voice itself. It is important to be mindful during international business transactions so that what you communicate is exactly what is understood. Some aspects of body language have varying meanings around the world which may be taken as an offense if care is not taken. In some parts of Asia standing with your feet pointed directly at the other person is unacceptable and considered rude. In Africa receiving something from someone else with your left hand is also offensive. A courtesy or bow in some cultures is honored far more than a handshake if the person is much older than you or represents a big status symbol in society. To be safe ensure your body language is positive when you stand to ensure you are fully upright. Slouching, bending or leaning shows a lack of assertiveness as well as lack of confidence. Your facial expressions can also give you away easily, your eyes, brows, mouth, and jaw must communicate in a positive way or you may lose credibility when you need it the most. In using your hands to gesture avoid closed gestures like closed palms, folded arms or looking away from others while talking. This action speaks to aggressiveness, arrogance, confrontational or conflict brewing. It is a good idea to recognize at this point finger actions too. Do not forget signs using your fingers are powerful and send strong messages, however they can also have negative connotations. Do a little research on body language usages in the business terrain you are visiting along with other fact findings. To appear honest, open and friendly doing business internationally, show your palms more, be attentive, wear a constant smile, relax, be cordial and walk the walk of confidence. Lazy Listening Business done on the international scene will always be challenged with a few communication barriers, so the skill of listening is very essential. There is no room for mediocrity or lazy listening, your full attention is paramount. You need to listen with intent, be present at the moment, know why you are there and push out all forms of distraction that may impair your business results. A business deal entails maximum attention and picking up all fine detail including the ones in between the lines that are easily overlooked. These are the ones that have the potential to create unnecessary conflict and litigations in future. As you listen ask multiple questions where you are not sure or where you require further clarification. Your listening should always aim to gather facts, identify problems, aid decision making, conclude findings and ultimately position you and your business for greater heights. Once you are confident of what you have heard repeat it loud and clear. Valued Vocals Have you ever considered how your voice sounds, your vocal image on phone or in person? Are you connecting with your business colleagues or are you miscommunicating? Your voice says a lot about you and the impression that you leave in the minds of those who see you. You will already know if your voice is soft and gentle, you will already know how some people perceive you when you speak in an introversive manner, most times others may just tell you. On the other hand, you also need to be careful if you come across too forward, a little loud and lousy and at times a distraction. What does your voice sound like? Is it boring, defensive, enthusiastic, depressed, angry or happy? People react to the sound of your voice first before they assimilate the words said. If your voice is not harmonious listeners will tend to switch off, as a spontaneous reaction. Do you have any vocal indicators that can sabotage your communication? Your voice clearly tells us about you, it indicates your character, personality, credibility, and overall confidence. What is essential when your voice is heard especially when you are in the international business scene is your tone of voice, the pace with which you pick your words, the volume in terms of how high or how low you speak, the pitch as regards the squeakiness or huskiness of your voice, the inflection in your words or the monotonous nature in the flow of your sentences and finally your accent and fluency. If you have identified an accent in your voice, try to speak slowly being mindful of your chosen words to effect clear communication. It is always a good idea to attend a speech clinic to aid the fluency of your diction if you will be doing regular international business transactions. Impressive Impression • Impress by being on time • Impress by looking the part • Impress by graceful grooming • Impress by acting and behaving positively • Impress by greeting in the foreign language • Impress by promising small and delivering big • Impress by being customer-centric • Impress by remaining professional • Impress with a great attitude • Impress by doing the right thing Best of luck in your business travels. Janet.adetu@gmail.com Please share your experience with me by sending an email to or janet.adetu@jsketiquetteconsortium.com. / jtadetu@gmail.com Follow and like @janetadetu @jsketiquetteconsortium I look forward to hearing from you.