OkadaBooks for this weekend features  romantic adventure stories from Love Africa Press ; Healing His Medic by Nana Prah Doctor Comfort Djan is looking for salvation after a tragic accident, which takes her to deprived
regions where her skills heal the helpless. Commander Akin Solarin wants nothing more than to
do his job, especially when his medic ‘s temporary replacement turns out to be a disconcerting woman who pushes all his buttons.Neither can deny the attraction between them, but navigating uncharted personal waters may be the least of their problems when confronted with bold pirate attacks and other vicious unknown dangers onboard the frigate. And when Comfort’ s life gets on the line, Akin knows he will do anything to save his medic and heal her battered heart in the process. Read Now Unravelling His Mark by Zee Monodee A man with a mission. A woman with nothing to hide. Annabelle has no idea Zach is here to
determine if she is a mercenary with no remorse. And the more he gets to know her, the more it
becomes obvious she cannot be this twisted assassin. Indeed, Evangeline is near, and when
Zach finds out Annabelle is the killer’s latest target, he will stop at nothing to protect the woman
he has in the meantime fallen in love with. As they race against the clock, will they both be able
to thwart the psychopath’s plan to kill them in the most devious way?Read Now Queer and Sexy Collection by Eniitan Love Africa Press presents Volume One of its Queer and Sexy Collections exploring queer
sensuality. Stories: Last Weekend, The Song, The Handmaiden In this debut edition of three
interwoven stories written by Eniitan, we explore pleasure, desire, love, human nature and
godhood. Follow the lives of Ufuoma, Larrie, Ariyike, Fausiat, Halimat and Uduak as they
experience the magic that is the otherworldly Tara. Read Now Do enjoy in the pleasure of reading brought to you by Love Africa Press on OkadaBooks. Read More : OkadaBooks for the Weekend Featuring Kiru Taye&#8217;s Essien Series