DigifyPRO, an eight-week intensive Digital Marketing training programme facilitated by Digify Africa and supported by Facebook has commenced its fourth cohort in Nigeria holding in Abuja for the first time. The training,  designed to develop Africa’s next generation of digital talent, just like the three previous cohorts held in Lagos, will equip 20 Nigerian graduates  in Abuja between the ages of 20 to 30 years who are not currently in full-time employment with key skills to enter the digital workplace. “Our end goal is to inject the Nigerian advertising industry with well trained DigifyPRO graduates who bring with them a new burst of energy and critical cutting-edge skills,” said Florence Atunwa Olumodimu, Programme Director at Digify Nigeria. “Most importantly, in the 8-weeks they are given job readiness skills to ensure that they are able to thrive in the workplace and offer value to their employers” she added. “ The programme which  is designed to give trainees practical hands-on experience and cover topics such as: Vocational and workplace skills; Agency processes; Digital Marketing; Analytics and measurement; Social Media;Content and Email marketing; UX/UI; Paid advertising; SEO will placed the trainees in  Nigerian Agency or Corporate Organization for a twelve weeks work placement experience where they can hone their newly acquired digital and work skills.” The training programme consists of weekly Live Briefs from Agencies; Workshops;Key Industry Guest Speaker Sessions and Work Placements. With the wide range of skills, knowledge and hands on experience gained through the programme, our graduates become great assets to any company they join. For Adaora Ikenze, Facebook’s Head of Public Policy, West and Central Africa “Facebook believes in supporting Africa’s youth through programmes like DigifyPro that develop and provide young people with the tools they need to build our economy.” “We are proud of the graduates from the past three Cohorts and admire the determination and drive they have shown throughout this programme and we are excited to see a new set of 20 participants kick start their journey into digital careers,” she added. “Also applications for the 5.0 Cohort will start on the 14th of October and run until the 7th of December 2019, graduates in and around Lagos are encouraged to visit the Digify Africa website https://www.digifyafrica.com/prolagos to apply.” 