Taraba State Governor, Darius Ishaku has promised to make funds more available to the Community and Social Development Projects (CSDP) in the state to enable the agency reach more communities in the state. Governor Ishaku made the pledge on Tuesday at training session organised by the CSDP for local government stakeholders in Community Development Plans (CDP). The governor, who was represented by Saleh Wunuji, permanent secretary with the state ministry of finance, said that “the remarkable transformation going on at the rural areas through the CSDP has helped to bring the government closer to the people than ever before in the history of this state.” Read Also; Gov Ishaku swears in new Taraba Chief Judge “I am overwhelmed by the testimonies of the people who are getting access to power supply, portable water, roads, and several other interventions for the first time. I strongly commend the management of CSDP for judiciously using the funds at their disposal for the development of the people. As a government, I want to assure you that we will do even more in the days to come. More funds will be made available so that other communities will also benefit from these projects,” he said. Rimamsikwe Karma, chairman of Ussa Local Government Area, who spoke on behalf of the local government chairmen and the other stakeholders in the state, said that “the CSDP has become the unstoppable rescue train captained by the governor himself with a very strong crew at the CSDP determined to reach the people in the rural areas despite all the challenges that are there”. Earlier, the state general manager of CSDP, Iremia Ezekiel Danjuma said that the training had become imperative to ensure that the people are abreast with the best practices in community development projects planning and execution so as to ensure that the projects delivered are of the best quality. Danjuma urged the people to take ownership of the projects in their various communities and to guard them jealously so that they will last long for further generations to also benefit from them.