Broadbased Communications Limited, an open access metropolitan fiber optic network operator has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Dolphin Telecom Limited, a member of the African Coast to Europe (ACE) submarine cable system consortium and the operator of the ACE Submarine Cable Landing Station in Nigeria. The formal agreement will ensure that Broadbased Communications provides last mile metropolitan fiber optic network connectivity on a wholesale basis to the clients of Dolphin Telecom Ltd which include telecom operators and Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in Nigeria. The ACE submarine cable system is managed by a consortium of 19 telecom operators from Africa and Europe. The ACE submarine cable system is being upgraded to100G technology, which will increase its design capacity from 5.12 Tbps to 12.8 Tbps. The ACE submarine cable system is supported by wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) technology to accommodate tomorrow’s ultra-broadband networks. Broadbased Communications operates a non- compete, non-discriminatory, open access metropolitan fiber optic network that spans over 3,500km of transmission, distribution and in-premise in all the major business districts in Lagos. It also operates metro fiber networks in Kano and Akwa-Ibom States with additional points of presence in Abuja, Port Harcourt and Enugu. Broadbased provides fiber optic network connectivity for mobile network operators, 4G network operators, all the submarine cable landing stations, all major internet service providers, all data centers, Nigeria internet exchange point, major global telecom operators, all the banks, the Nigerian Stock Exchange, all electronic payment switching and processing companies, oil companies, major corporate firms and residential estates in partnership with other telecom service providers in each estate. Henry Iseghohi, MD/CEO of Broadbased communications stated that “the MOU is a testament to the company’s dedication to the open access, non- compete model, robust network architecture and the dedication of the company’s staff.” Iseghohi said Broadbased Communications Ltd won the Telecom Wholesale Company of the year 2018 award of the Association of Telecom Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) and Titans of Tech Awards 2019 Most Innovative Fiber Optics Network Company of the Year by Technology Africa. Jonnie Coleman, the chief commercial officer of Dolphin Telecom, said the company is delighted to partner with Broadbased Communications to distribute its wholesale internet capacity to Telcos and ISPs in all the major districts of Lagos. He said the ACE submarine system has positioned itself as a key driver of Nigeria’s social and economic growth. Also speaking, Chris Erewele, the group executive director of Broadbased Communications, restated the company’s commitment to the provision of quality services to Dolphin Telecom with a dedicated technical support team to meet the needs of their esteemed wholesale customer including the use of horizontal directional drilling equipment to install fiber optic cables without manual digging. Chidi Ibisi, executive director, business development, said the Broadbased Network which spans over 3,500km is designed as a self-healing network in a ring architecture with redundant routes to over 20 points of presence.