TantaSecure Limited an indigenous device protection and Information Technology (IT) company has officially launched its flagship device protection platform, introducing its corporate and individual plans. The company which seeks to give extended warranty services to its customers, offer protection for mobile devices, as well as other electronic appliances, has so far been able to successfully resolve 53 damage/repair issues since the introduction of the device protection solution a few months ago. Speaking to journalists at the formal launch, Semilore Adeosun, director of marketing, TantaSecure Limited said; “We know that the things you protect are more than just things—they’re valuable parts of your life. We also understand that accidents and malfunctions aren’t your fault. That’s why we promise to make filing a claim easier, get it fixed or replaced fast, and help get your life back to normal with as little hassle as possible. We have designed these products with individuals and corporate organisations in mind. We are trying as much as possible to reduce the burden of maintaining, repairing and sourcing for original parts on Nigerians.” Also speaking, Abraham Tanta, chairman and founder of TantaSecure said that the service protects all devices, appliances, electronics and gadgets of various makes and models no matter where or when they were purchased as long as they are in good working condition with a proof of purchase. Addressing the issue of a lack of trusted technicians, Tanta said; “We have been able to put together a network of technicians, experts in different fields and areas of specialties. These technicians are certified and vetted, so you can be rest assured your safety is of importance to us if we invite a technician to come to you.” “We train our technicians to go extremely into detail on every component in any device and to make sure that everything is 100 percent perfect, so that you don’t have a reason to bring your device back to us for repairs.” He added. Tanta also stated that the company has forged partnerships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to enable it perform a complete replacement of faulty components and not just a repair using industry grade components at cheaper rates compared to market prices. With a mobile app available on Google play store, TantaSecure currently covers Lagos with packages that also cater to students with as low as a thousand naira and packages for the family at discounted rates. TantaSecure Limited is a sister company to Tanta Innovative Limited, a custom software development and IT consulting company with 10 years experience and operations in Lagos Nigeria.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson