The Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Board of Trustees (BoT), Senator Walid Jubrin has asked Governor Wike to trade with caution and not rant because no probe committee instituted by the party is corrupt as alleged. Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike had alleged that the Senator Iyochia Ayu committee that investigated the Minority leader, Ndudi Elumelu and other minority principal officers of the House of Representatives is excessively corrupt. The committee has Sen. Iyorchia Ayu as chairman, Sen. Adolphus Wabara, Sen. David Mark, Sen. Ibrahim Mantu and Rt. Hon. Austin Opara as secretary. But Okpara has exited the committee over inexplicable issues. However, in reply to the governor, Thursday, the BoT explained that, “We have three other committees and the outcome of the Ayu’s committee will not be insolation of other committees like the Tom Ikimi Disciplinary committee and the Senator Adolphus Wabara committee. “It is true that the committee have submitted it’s report but the BoT will meet Thursday next week to discuss and take a decision on the recommendations.” Explaining why the secretary of the committee, Hon. Austin Opara left the committee, Senator Jibrin said, “I don’t know why he left. It was when the report of the committee was submitted that I noticed that he did not sign and his colmun for signature was not signed. I am not a member of the committee. Since the inauguration of the committee, I have not spoken to them, I have not visited or interfered with their work or give any input in the course of their work.” Meanwhile, the BoT Secretary, Senator Adolphus Wabara has said it is premature to join issues with Wike as the BoT is yet to discuss the Ayu report and come up with a position. He said, “But permit me to make it abundantly clear to our performing Governor of Rivers State that Wabara is not corrupt and that I do not think that all the other distinguished members of this committee are. “We are experienced and tested authorities on legislative matters and the unity of our great party without concealed interest in 2023 was paramount. I will not unwittingly discuss the content of the report on the pages of newspapers until the BoT takes a decision on the recommendations of the Ayu committee report,” Wabara insisted.