Former Vice President and Presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, in 2019 election, has expressed appreciation to the Nigerian people for the support given to him and his party in his quest to challenge the declaration of President Muhammadu Buhari as the winner of the 2019 election in the courts.  Atiku in a statement he personally signed and entitled “A Message of Gratitude to Nigerians For Your Support on This Necessary Journey,” made available to BusinessDay on Friday, said the support made him stronger to seek his mandate allegedly taken by the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress(APC) and President Buhari. “Nothing good comes easy, and hard as the task to rid Nigeria from the forces of fascism, and be an instrument for the full restoration of the rule of law and democracy in Nigeria is, your support makes the struggle worthwhile. The Presidential Elections Petitions Tribunal led by Justice Mohammad Umar on Wednesday September 11, dismissed Atiku’s petition on the grounds that the former Vice President did not provide enough evidence to upturn the election of President Buhari. Atiku has since appealed to the Supreme Court. “I write to personally thank you for your support for our shared common goal and the solidarity I enjoyed from all walks of life and every strata of society, right from July 21, 2018, when I informed you, the good people of Nigeria, that I would contest the 2019 Presidential election, to Wednesday September 11, 2019, when the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal rendered its verdict,” he said. The Wazirin Adamawa noted that he owes so much to Nigeria that took him from the streets of Jada, where he sold firewood, to the heights he has attained, by God’s benevolence, in the civil service, in corporate Nigeria, and in public service. He said “If I do not play my part in making it possible for other orphaned children, indigent youths and the less privileged, to replicate and even surpass my path to significance, I would have failed my Maker. If I do not ensure that the ladder I climbed remains accessible to those at the bottom, middle and top tiers of society, I would not have fulfilled my purpose. “And only by ensuring that democracy is not just done, but seen to be done, can Nigeria and Nigerians have a sense that this our dear land is indeed a land where Unity, Faith, Peace and Progress reside,” he said. He averred that it is for this, and other patriotic reasons, that he is pursuing this judicial route to ensure that the votes of Nigerians count and are counted. “Yes, those who do not want this as Nigeria’s reality, will use every trick in the book to undermine, discourage, misinform and mislead, but with God’s help and the support of Nigerians, we will ensure that Nigeria makes a course correction away from tyranny and towards democracy. “We must return to being Africa’s bastion of democracy, where the rights to Freedom of Speech and Freedom after the Speech, are guaranteed. We must stand together to pursue this just cause all the way, so that our judiciary are not afraid to do their jobs and have to be wary of blackmail, intimidation, and victimization,” he said. He acknowledged the immense outpouring of goodwill from ordinary Nigerians in every nook and cranny of Nigeria and from all regions, religions and relationships even as he thanked the governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, as well as the National Executive Committee, for their unanimous and unambiguous support for the judicial phase of this struggle, especially after it was announced that we would go on to appeal. “I urge all Nigerians to continue their support for this recourse to constitutional order via the courts. Even if there is little or nothing you can do to ensure that justice is done in Nigeria, just believe that it will happen. Let us never underestimate the effect of our belief in Nigeria,” he said.