iDAF, a non-governmental organisation that focuses on creating an Artificial Intelligence (A.I.) empowered community in Africa, has introduced iAspire data science fellowship program. Data Science entails a combination of data inference, algorithms, and technology that solves complex problems. The core of this technology is data that is initially raw, then is streamlined, and stored in a data warehouse. These vast amounts of data can help generate significant business values. Today, leading organisations bring their data science and business intelligence practices together, providing them with timely and centralised access to corporate data. To cue Nigerian businesses to emerging business models, they require skilled data scientists. To this end, the iDAF’s flagship program aims to train and prepare Nigeria’s bright minds to use Artificial Intelligence and advanced machine and deep learning concepts to tackle business and social problems. The program is a two-year program that includes six-month comprehensive data science training and 18 months of professional work as a data scientist consultant with iDAF’s partner, Data Wrangling. In addition, successful graduates take a cloud certification in AWS, Azure or Google. Participants on the two-year journey will also enjoy sleuth of mentors from the industry and academia that brings all the interaction, social learning, localized capstone project and a globally accepted cloud certification. Speaking to the press about the program, Theophilus Medeiros, the co-founder/CEO of iDAF, said that the data science program offers a comprehensive curriculum for participants and is designed for the industry. “iAspire data science fellowship is about the only data science program in Africa that offers the most comprehensive curriculum and a guaranteed Cloud Certification. Curriculum designed and being constantly updated to cater to industry needs by experienced data science practitioners and professors “The program creates a portfolio of 10 mini-projects and a capstone project across industries of your choice to showcase your skills and knowledge and will definitely offer participants knowledge about the theory of current data science technologies with hands-on experience”. To participate in the program, interested candidates are to visit iDAF’s website (www.idaf.ng/apply) and submit their application not later than October 5, 2019. “Therefore, we get you up to speed as quickly and deeply in just six months of current topics. Interestingly, the faculty is a mix of Top Data Scientists working for Fortune 50 companies who are passionate in teaching,” the Founder added. Also commenting, Prince Ogwuru, iDAF’s co-founder, advised the government to develop policy frameworks and structures on which artificial intelligence can thrive, and position Nigeria as the leader of Artificial Intelligence in Africa.