In an unprecedented move, 007 Global Production is bringing together an array of stars not seen in a long time in Nollywood in a new movie production. Dear Affy will see superstar musician, Teniola make her acting debut. In same vein, Sir Dee, recent Big Brother Naija contestant, will be making his acting debut as well. The movie titled “Dear Affy” is a joint production between 007 Global headed by Samuel Olatunji, Aul Media Studios, Track and Dolly productions, Tola Elatuyi and others. “Dear Affy” tells the fascinating story of an organized female art enthusiast, about to marry the man of her dreams but life suddenly scuttles her well-laid out plans as she accidentally ‘falls’ pregnant. She embarks on a challenging mission to locate who the father of the unborn baby is since she and her fiance have chosen celibacy while courting. Read Also: Funding Nollywood for national development: The PPP alternative The movie features top Nollywood stars and mainstream celebrities like Mawuli Gavor, Charles Inojie, Toyin Abraham, Odunlade Adekola, Kehinde Bankole, Bimbo Ademoye, Chiwetalu Agu, Jide Kosoko, Bimbo Akintola, Chinedu Ikedieze, , Deyemi Okanlawon, Wiliams Uchemba, Kolawole Ajeyemi, Ali Nuhu, Hafeez Oyetoro, Uzee Usman, Sir Dee, Lizzy Jay, Anto Lecky, Uzor Arukwe and wave-making music sensation Teni the Entertainer, among several others. Dear Affy will be directed by celebrated media entrepreneur, Samuel Olatunji who executive produced Ghost and The Tout and Seven And A Half Dates. Samuel Olatunji has a certificate in Film Making, Film Editing and has spearheaded the marketing of several successful Nollywood movies at the Box Office. Samuel Olatunji, director of the movie, says, “Dear Affy is an ambitious project, we want to tell a different kind of Nollywood story, we want to be very professional and excellent in our doing, we want to provide 100 percent entertainment and unpredictable story at the cinema. We have cast of who-is-who that can deliver the perfect performance. We are not stopping there, we have dreams, we have ambitions, we believe Nigeria is a place where dreams are possible, we have dreams and believe Dear Affy will be the first Nollywood movie to hit N500 million at the box office. We have had people tell us it is an impossible dream because of the gigantic nature of the dream but that will not stop us”. Dear Affy will be released in cinemas on February 14, 2020 and will be distributed by Filmone Distribution.