Nigeria’s wheat production has received a boost as the National Varieties Release Committee has introduced a new improved variety to farmers. The wheat variety named LACRI WHIT – 11, was recommended for release based on its heat tolerance, high yielding and good baking qualities. The approval and release of the wheat variety was announced at the 27th meeting of the National Varieties Release Committee (NVRC) held at the National Centre for Genetic Resources and Biotechnology (NACGRAB), Ibadan, Oyo State recently. Oladosu Awoyemi, chairman, NVRC stated that though a total of seven crop varieties were submitted for registration and release, only the wheat variety was approved for release by NVRC. Awoyemi, a professor said LACRI WHIT – 11 was developed by the International Centre for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA) in conjunction with Lake Chad Research Institute (LCRI), Maiduguri. According to him the variety has 90 to 95 days maturity period, well adapted to irrigated conditions of the Sudan – Savannah zones, and potential yield of 7.1 tonnes per hectare. In his remarks at the meeting, Sunday Aladele, the Registrar of the committee who is also the director/chief executive officer of NACGRAB, called on plant breeders and crop scientists from within and outside Nigeria to submit their nominations to NACGRAB on time. Aladele said early submission of varieties for nominations would enable the NVRC to recommend and approve greater number of varieties at its next meeting. The registrar also insisted that potential crop varieties developers must ensure their nominations complied with the Distinct Uniformity Stability (DUS) requirements from NACGRAB. “The crop varieties must meet the DUS requirements of being distinct, uniform and stable to be accepted not only in Nigeria but in the whole West Africa region,” he said. The registrar, whose centre is the secretariat of NVRC, urged developing organizations to follow the guidelines for release and registration religiously if they wanted their varieties to be recommended and approved for release. The 27th NVRC meeting was attended by representatives of research institutions, universities and private seed companies in Nigeria and abroad.  REMI FEYISIPO, Ibadan.