A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress ( APC), Charles Idahosa, on Tuesday urged the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki and Adams Oshiomhole, the national chairman of the party to settle their difference amicably in the interest of the party. Idahosa, political adviser to Adams Oshiomhole made the appeal at a press briefing in Benin City. He also urged the duo not to drag politicians and press into their personal crisis. Idahosa, who attributed the crisis between governor Obaseki and Adams Oshiomhole to envy and jealousy, noted that the governor has within three years in office performed creditably to the expectations of the electorate. “Why is this fighting? What has the young man done that they are now fighting him about? Case of envy and jealousy cannot be settled. That is the cause of their quarrel. Obaseki has performed very well within three years in office and if given another opportunity to govern the state for another four years, he will do more than what he is doing now. Read also: Edo Assembly: Court upholds Obaseki&#8217;s proclamation “They should go and settle their quarrel (themselves) instead of indicting politicians and press. Obaseki will say politicians are greedy. They want money and I have no money to share to them while Oshiomhole will say they are political merchants, and that they are gaining from it. “Obaseki and Oshiomhole should try and settle themselves because Oshiomhole is the one that brought Obaseki and we bought it from him. Until, now they have not told us the causes of their quarrel (crisis)”, he said. He however, warned that any attempt to deny the governor the party’s ticket in the 2020 governorship election will not only be resisted but will lead to the end of the party in the state. “Anybody thinking that they are going to wrestle Obaseki out of the governorship race in 2020 is wrong. We will not allow it. I am standing by him, and nobody can push him out of the party unless they want to finish APC in South-south and SouthEast. As I speak now, only Edo is APC state, and if by error, omission and commission they push Obaseki out of the party that is the end of APC”, he added. He said Oshiomhole should be held responsible for whatever Obaseki is doing in the state. According to him, Oshiomhole is shooting himself in the foot. So, everything Obaseki has done is for Oshiomhole because he owned him and he brought him. If Obaseki brought 20 commissioners it is Oshiomhole that brought them.