Popular smartphone company, Tecno mobile has launched a new mobile device under its camera-centric flagship, the Camon series. The new Tecno Camon 12 device, is a testament of the brand’s improvement and development of smartphone photography, as it comes with a number of enhanced features. The Camon 12 smartphone which was launched alongside the Camon 12 pro and air devices at an event in Lagos recently, spots a lot of upgraded features, one of which is the inclusion of an Artificial Intelligent (AI) triple camera as against the dual rear-camera spotted on the Camon 11 Series, which was launched last year. Speaking at the launch event, Jesse Oguntimehin, public relations and strategic partnership manager, Tecno mobile said; “The Camon 12 is more than just any device, it is the device that comes with a lot of physical and inbuilt upgrades from the Camon 11 launched last year, ranging from its look and feel, to its camera, to its security feature upgrade, the brand has it all covered.” He further stated that; “This is the 7th generation of the Camon Series and with this device, we are unlocking a new era of smartphone photography. This time around, we at Tecno have worked round the clock to make it possible for our users, to see the world through our device.” The Camon 12 Pro gives users more in terms of smartphone photography with its 32 MP and dual front flash, which solves the problem of lowlight selfies. The device also comes with an upgraded beauty mode, which has an advanced 3D stereoscopic facial beauty to make your selfie perfect. The beauty mode also expands its scope to body beauty and video beauty. Far from the usual Selfie DNA of the Camon Series, the Camon 12 spots an AI triple rear camera set of 16MP+2MP+8MP, which is a total upgrade from last year’s Camon 11 experience. Users can now enjoy, up to 120° super wide-angle shots and 2cm extreme macro photography experience, making it possible for the camera’s output to capture the littlest of details when taking pictures with the device’s camera. Other features include Bluetooth 5.0 which makes connecting one device to another easier and transferring files faster; 4G LTE capacity for smooth high-speed browsing; and a sizeable 3,500mah Battery. The new device comes in three size variants the CAMON 12 with a 64GB ROM+ 4GB RAM (16 MP selfie camera), the CAMON 12 Pro with a 64GB ROM + 6GB RAM (32 MP selfie camera), the CAMON 12 Air with a 32GB ROM + 3GB RAM (8 MP selfie camera). The Camon 12 Series is powered by Mediatek’s Helio P22 chipset which makes possible smart AI imaging, AI camera, reliable connectivity and power efficiency—with all the power packed in the Camon 12 Series, it won’t get hot while performing powerful functions. Tecno also revealed that the Camon 12 is currently selling at a retail price of N47,500 while the Camon 12 Air and Camon 12 Pro will be available in the market soon. Attai Oguche, deputy marketing manager, Tecno, who announced an ongoing promotion said; “every consumer who purchases the Tecno Camon 12 series will have a chance to win a trip to Europe as they will be given a raffle ticket once they make a purchase.