September is starting off on a great note for fashion designers across Africa, as Design Fashion Africa (DFA) has launched its search for the next superstar designer from the continent. The platform, which seeks to discover, inspire and empower existing and upcoming designers to commercialise their talents, is set to kick off its maiden edition. Read Also :  Entrepreneur advises FG to include fashion &#038; designing as course in tertiary institutions The announcement event held at Eko Hotel and Suites, and attended by celebrities like Idia Aisien, Kelechi Amadi-Obi and Mai Atafo, outlined the goal the initiative hopes to achieve and the journey each designer is expected to undergo in their bid to become the next big thing in the budding fashion scene. These stages include an online fashion challenge, a fashion training academy and a runway fashion show where finalists will be exhibiting their work to the public. There are also plans for a marketplace where fashion lovers can pick up accessories and outfits that they fall in love with.
Idia Aisien, spokesperson for DFA said the project promises to get better judging by the reception it received from industry players. “We want the message to go as far as possible, and reach everyone interested in fashion so we can expose the very best designers to the rest of the world.” “I’m so excited to be a part of this initiative as it is on the right path to changing the future of fashion design in Africa. We want to, with DFA, discover, inspire and empower young budding talents in fashion and also give them a platform to showcase and sell their wares. Opportunities like this don’t come every day in the fashion industry and I’m happy I get to work with the guys at Jakaranda and Oracle to pull this off,” said Ohimai Atafo, a renowned fashion designer. Applications for the online fashion challenge are expected to begin fully in the coming days and run until the end of the month, after which finalists for the fashion academy will be announced.