TC Townhall: Mobility will gather policy makers, transport and logistics entrepreneurs as well as investors. Dr Frederic Oladeinde, Lagos State Commissioner of Transport will join Mr Oluwadamilola Emmanuel, GM at Lagos State Waterways  to engage private sector including Nigeria’s former minister of communications and senior partner at TLcom Capital, Dr Omobola Johnson; Obi Ozor, CEO at Kobo360; Taiwo Kamson Ketiku, VP Investments at EchoVC; Chinedu Azodoh, CGO/Cofounder at MAX; Oluwatoyin Oshinowo, CTO at FieldInsight and Uche Ogboi, COO at Lori Systems are some of the industry leaders that will speak at the event. On September 27, 2019, at 9 am, TechCabal is convening the most knowledgeable and influential mobility entrepreneurs, investors and policymakers at Zone Tech Park, Gbagada Expressway, Lagos to explore, discuss and define the activity in Africa’s mobility sector, the challenges and what the future holds. Following recent policy conversations about the bike-hailing industry and the wider regulatory implications of growing activity in the transport and logistics industry, this Techcabal event, TC Townhall: Mobility, will feature regulator sessions to drive strong and open regulator conversations with the private sector. TC Townhall: Mobility is the fourth in a series of sector-focused events organized by TechCabal and it will examine the transport and logistics tech sector across Africa.  Newly appointed Lagos State Commissioner of Transport, Dr Frederic Oladeinde is one of the confirmed speakers for the regulator session. Oladeinde has a PhD in Transport Planning and Modelling from Imperial College, London.  Before his appointment, he was Director, Corporate and Investment Planning at the Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA) for three (3) years. Prior to joining LAMATA in 2008, Oladeinde spent seven (7) years as Senior Transport Planning Advisor at the United Kingdom’s Department for Transport.  Another confirmed speaker for the regulator session is Mr Oluwadamilola Emmanuel, GM at the Lagos State Waterways (LASWA). There will be other officials from the Lagos State government as well as policymakers at the national level.  The new Commissioner of Transport and the GM of LASWA will inform the public about their plans and proposed policies to improve transportation infrastructure available in Lagos State as well as their plans to partner and/or do business with the private sector.  “This event comes at a time where we are seeing an explosion of activities in the transport sector. Our goal is to bring everyone into the same room to chart a path for success,” said Tomiwa Aladekomo, CEO of Big Cabal Media which owns TechCabal, a publication focused on African innovation and technology.  Since the first TC Townhall on Fintech held in partnership with Softcom in November 2018, the event series has convened the most influential leaders in each sector including Health Tech and Renewable Energy.  Asides policymakers, TC Townhall: Mobility will gather transport and logistics entrepreneurs as well as investors. Nigeria’s former minister of communications and senior partner at TLcom Capital, Dr Omobola Johnson; Obi Ozor, CEO at Kobo360; Taiwo Kamson Ketiku, VP Investments at EchoVC; Chinedu Azodoh, CGO/Cofounder at MAX; Oluwatoyin Oshinowo, CTO at FieldInsight and Uche Ogboi, COO at Lori Systems are some of the industry leaders that will speak at the event.  TC Townhall: Mobility is possible with support from Zone Tech Park.  Please find more details about the event below: Friday, September 27, 2019 Zone Tech Park Plot 9 Gbagada Industrial Scheme, Beside UPS, Gbagada Expressway 9AM-6PM 