Big Dutchman Agriculture Nigeria Limited has recently entered into a training partnership with AFOS Foundation to train livestock farmers in the country. The aim of the training is to improve the efficiency of the agricultural value chains in the livestock subsector and create a skilled workforce within the industry. The training, which is tagged ‘Technical Vocational Education Training (TVET)’, will be carried out in close cooperation with companies in the field of livestock and crop business in Nigeria within Lagos and Ibadan. Thomas Ogundiran, MD/CEO Big Dutchman said the partnership will expectedly create future pacesetting technicians within the livestock industry in Nigeria. “The Nigerian agriculture industry currently has a shortage of skilled technicians. For us to truly leverage the financial and technological interventions that are expected to guide Nigeria towards agricultural self-sufficiency, we need innovative technicians who are pace setters in the agricultural industry,” said Ogundiran. Linda Itabor, the human resource manager, Big Dutchman Nigeria, while speaking on the benefit of the partnership urged other stakeholders in livestock farming to place priority on youth empowerment in Nigeria. “Big Dutchman will provide training on poultry equipment for all trainees and improve the technical skills of all cooperating companies.” According to Itabor, the training will run for over a year and will equip the participants with the relevant skills needed to ensure optimization of their job roles. She opined that Big Dutchman Agriculture Nigeria Limited offer practical, economical and environment-friendly solutions geared to future needs of livestock farming. The training will consist of 11 classroom modules. These modules will cover the entire value chain of poultry production, as well as, further instructions in economics, record keeping and people business. After one week classroom training, the trainees will go back to their work place and will be exposed to other fields within their companies.  SEYI JOHN SALAU