Beyond just watching movies for the fun of it, it is important to note that the moral lessons to be taken away by viewers are just as important. Also important is the need to project activities of Nigerian youths, their everyday living such that they resonate with viewers. As Nigerian movies make international recognition, only very few movies have a mix of humor, capture every day to day activity and yet do not losing grip on moral lessons. One such few films are the ‘Three Thieves, which will be out in cinemas on the 4th of October, 2019. Three thieves is about three friends who are down and out on their luck. They are in the little part of Lagos called Festac and they are all working menial jobs and just trying to find a way to put money in their pocket. One thing leads to another, as a job falls on their lap by accident. They decided to do the job and everything go wrong for them. As viewers are kept spellbound on what will become of the characters, the humor in the movie lightens the suspense and makes every scene interesting. In an interview with BDSunday, the writer of the movie Sammy Egbemawei, disclosed that when he was writing the movie, he was thinking about having Nigerian youths represented on the screen and wanted to project the hard work that people do regardless of how misdirected it is. “The title is not enough to give out the story. There is still so much more in the movie. So back to back you see moments that will make you laugh, moments that will make you happy and moments that you will recognize yourself in. One of the themes of the movie is that ‘crime does pay.’ “For me, the characters were live from the scripting stage and seeing it brought to life, I can say justice was done. Writing this with great minds like Abba Makama and Africa Ukoh who could share in the vision I had for the story was indeed amazing.” Udoka Oyeka, the director of the movie said the experience directing the movie was fantastic as every single time he read the script, he was laughing because of the voice, the characters, their jokes and the way they relate with each other. “When I look back at it, I just realized that from reading the script to shooting the film and to editing the film, the whole of the production, we were laughing throughout. Every time I watch it, I keep laughing. It has just being a fun ride for me. “It was a pleasure putting this film together. The synergy between the three guys made my job easier and made the time on set a lot more fun. I am really excited for everyone to see this project and share in the happy spirit it brings,” Oyeka said. When Tega (Koye “K10” Kekere-Ekun) is mistaken for a professional robber, he and his friends Oreva (Shawn Faqua) and Rukevwe (Frank Donga) feel blessed to have been given the opportunity to make millions of naira without seemingly putting anyone at risk. The amateurs bite more than they can chew when the original professional robber comes after them even as they try to avoid the police. Their inexperience as they scheme and draft their strategy to execute a successful job will crack you up. Three Thieves is the second feature film from Trino Motion Pictures, a film production, marketing, and distribution company. The movie also features amazing actors and top influencers, including Odunlade Adekola, Shaffy Bello, Omotunde Adebowale(Lolo), Enado Odigie, Wofai Fada, Charles Okocha, and FunnyBone. Some of the casts include Tega- Koye Kekere-Ekun, Oreva- Shawn Faqua, Rukevwe- Frank Donga, Fuwe- Angel Unigwe and Adella- Lucy Ukpabi.