With the release of his new single, PRICE ON MY HEAD, from his highly anticipated ep, Under Surveillance which is enjoying massive air play, Ugochukwu Terrence Odenigbo aka TerryTheVoice is indeed a force to reckon with in the Nigerian music industry. The 24year old Psychology graduate of Godfrey Okoye university, Enugu said said he started his journey into the music industry as an On Air Personality to the school’s radio station. “I started my musical career as an OAP for his university radio station (GOUni Radio). Thereafter, he took up voiceover artistry, of which he defines as “his passion” and thus, delivered quite a number of recordings for documentaries” The sensational singer said that inspiration for the track came after he was unlawfully detained by the authorities adding that the track also intends to give hope and connect to anybody who has faced such harassment and been treated unfairly by the system. “The track comes off the back of an unlawful detention by the authorities and looks to connect with everyone out there who has been harassed, detained or treated unfairly by the system and its vices. This track, also intends to encourage Nigerians specifically whose daily efforts are constantly derailed by state and non-state actors for reasons unknown or unjust” Terrythevoice attended International nursery and primary school and University of Nigeria Nsukka secondary school respectively. Explaining further he said, “I discovered my voiceover talent as an 8-year old. Initially, I was attracted to radio commercials and movie narrations and when I tried to perform the voices I heard, I realized that I could take on deep-toned voices effortlessly in just about any context and character” The Enugu born talented singer said his mother has been his major source of inspiration since he ventured into the entertainment world. “My mother was a huge influence as she told me multiple times that my voice acting was an art form that I would profit from heavily in the future. I am still amazed at how correct she was” TerryTheVoice’s mum is a high school teacher while his dad works at the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria. Explaining how he met his manager he said, “While in school, I met a friend and associate, Westley (now manager and voice coach) who helped me grow my talent and has been there every step of the way. Together, we set up TerryTheVoice, got our first major contract and delivered beyond expectations. It’s been uphill from there” Terrythevoice has also had some awesome deliveries and major commercials which featured in the popular Big Brother Naija and Headies Award.