The city of Lagos will play host to a series of events that aims to promote the Nigerian Coffee
Culture and Community as a whole. With the main theme: “Coffee, Culture & Community.”, this
inaugural edition of the Lagos Coffee Festival sets off an annual celebration of the coffee
consumption culture in Lagos, and in Nigeria by extension.  Two pre-events are scheduled for the 14th and 20th of September leading up to the International Coffee Day on the 1st of October and the Main Festival slated October 5th at Nakenohs Boulevard, Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria. According to the International Coffee Organization, Brazil remains the largest exporter and
hosts one of the 30 annual global coffee events. Lagos is set to join Addis Ababa, Cape Town
and Nairobi to push forward the African agenda in the worldwide coffee market. In a bid to
enhance cohesiveness on a national front, Lagos Coffee Festival 2019 presents a platform for
dialogue amongst the actors in the burgeoning coffee economy in Nigeria. In alignment with
Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 8 – 12, local farmers, policy makers and retail
companies will share a table to propose responsive steps for better working synergy and mutual
benefit. Exhibitors, partners and stakeholders will showcase and engage the richness, uniqueness and
versatility of the Nigerian coffee value chain through carefully curated events. There will be a
guided tour to a coffee roastery in Lagos, live art performances, book readings & an exposé into
all the ways in which coffee is consumed in Lagos and Nigeria. Among the partners already confirmed are Brazilian Consulate-General in Nigeria, Q21
Solutions LTD, Happy Coffee, Shaw lArchi Tunde.Africa, Red Factory, Social Prefect Tours,
GreenHill Recycling, Ochatoptasia LTD, KandD Creatives Branding, Aidan Partners, Kaldi
Africa. Details of the Festival Lagos Coffee Festival 2019 – Coffee, Culture & Community. October 5th :Nakenohs Boulevard Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria Registration: https://www.lagoscoffeefestival.eventbrite.com Social Media facebook.com/lagoscoffeefestival instagram.com/lagoscoffeefestival twitter.com/lagcoffeefest Hashtags: #LACOFE2019 #LagosCoffeeFestival #LagosCoffeeFestival2019