Infinix Mobility has launched the new Hot 8 smartphone, the latest addition to its ‘HOT’ entertainment product line-up. With a 5,000mAh battery, a 6.6-inch HD+ waterdrop display, a triple rear camera, and a DIRAC sound and party mode as the key features, HOT 8 will allow consumers to enjoy a world of entertainment at their fingertips. HOT is a mid-budget series phone designed for young people who are passionate about entertainment in the interconnected world. Inheriting Infinix’s brand spirit of providing the most cutting-edge technologies at affordable prices, HOT series has been committed to breaking the boundaries of combining the most relevant features in one device, letting customers amplify their entertainment experience in the digital space. “The Infinix HOT series aims to empower young people with boundless entertainment experience fueled by transformative mobile technology. We observe the trends of online and offline entertainment in global emerging markets where technologies apply. We found that young people desire to connect and share their life with their communities in various ways, such as social networking, gaming, streaming, and partying,” Benjamin Jiang, managing director of Infinix Mobile said. The new device was launched at a concert-like event at University of Lagos sports center on Friday September 20, 2019, as the mobile phone company reiterated that the Hot 8 is a youth focused device operating in partnership with Google, Vskit and Boomplay “The launch of HOT 8 is a great example of how Infinix spares no efforts in delivering on its promise. By integrating a bigger battery, a bigger display and other key features, we not only aim to satisfy consumers’ entertainment desires, but also inspire them to explore a world of creativity with one device at smaller cost.” Jiang added. HOT 8 comes with a 5,000mAh battery in a compact body. According to Infinix, the device enables four days of battery life with only three hours of charging through the 2A fast charge technology. “Consumers will be able to enjoy non-stop entertainment throughout the day, whether it is social networking, watching videos, capturing images, or playing games. To further satisfy consumer demand of long standby time, HOT 8 also adopts artificial intelligence to optimize power consumption. By learning consumer app usage habit and executing an intelligent power saving strategy, HOT 8 creates a 10 percent increase in overall standby time,” Amanda Zhang, marketing manager, Infinix Mobility said. The HOT 8 features a 13MP rear triple camera, consisting of a 13MP lens, a 2MP lens and an AI lens that combine to capture more detailed clearer pictures. It is also equipped with a Quad flash and an F1.8 aperture to further enhance the camera performance. The triple rear camera will empower consumers with better image capturing and broadcasting experience, allowing them to explore more entertainment. The new device is preinstalled with the Google Files app to keep the device more organized and cleaner. It enables consumers to free up space regularly, search files quickly, and transfer files without consuming mobile data.