MainOne, the network and internet service provider, has announced the expansion of its data centre brand, MDXi, into Accra, Ghana, in line with its ongoing West Africa growth plans. Read Also: Updated: MainOne makes N25bn digital infrastructure investment for Lagos smart-city initiative MainOne wants to expand an already robust infrastructure and service profile in Ghana and says it is extending its presence in the country with a new facility through its subsidiary, MDXi, the largest commercial data centre services provider in West Africa. The move shows commitment to a strategy that would increase MainOne’s presence across the West African region where it already operates in countries including Nigeria and Ghana. “As an organisation committed to providing broadband infrastructure solutions across West Africa, we are excited to make this investment to support the digitization journey of our customers with the new data centre facility,” said Kazeem Oladepo, Regional Executive, MainOne said. The new data centre, which will be based in Appolonia City, 20 kilometres from the centre of Accra, is expected to be ready for service in the fourth quarter of 2020. The facility will cater to the ever-increasing demand for colocation and interconnection services for multinationals and local businesses seeking shared services facilities for their ICT resources in world-class facilities, MainOne said. It also said the facility would be designed to international standards consistent with the MainOne brand, assuring collocated customers of the highest quality of service to meet their business requirements. The 100-rack facility will offer also customers the opportunity to host infrastructure in a facility guaranteed to provide high levels of availability and rich connectivity with a global network of customers, partners and suppliers thus ensuring 24X7 online delivery of services for the businesses. MDXi’s world-class infrastructure will feature private data centre suites, enterprise-grade 24×7 multi-level security and video surveillance, precision cooling, safety and fire suppression systems with multiple redundancies built into the power, cooling and security infrastructure. In line with its parent company’s leadership in the telecoms sector, the facility will offer open access connectivity options to all the leading telecom networks in Ghana and direct access to MainOne and other submarine cable systems. The facility will offer access to various Internet Exchanges including the GIX (Ghana), IXPN (Nigeria), LINX (London), DECIX (Frankfurt/Lisbon), and Cote d’Ivoire Internet Exchange (CIVIX), as well as the West Africa Internet Exchange (WAF-IX). MainOne says lessons learnt from its Nigerian data centre would be of particular relevance to the growing sectors in Ghana. MDXi’s Tier III data centre in Lekki, Lagos-Nigeria, is the largest purpose-built commercial data centre in West Africa, designed with a strong focus on high availability, security, and open access connectivity. The Nigerian facility has experienced tremendous growth in the Financial and Oil & Gas sectors where it has helped advance the digitization efforts of customers.  