The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed not gloat over the judgment of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal that struck out the petition of Abubakar Atiku. Lai Mohammed had said instead of PDP taking their quashed petition to the Supreme Court, Atiku and the party should rather apologise to Nigerians for causing unnecessary distraction to the nation’s growth. But in a swift reaction, the PDP insisted that the tribunal judgment is “a direct miscarriage of justice, and cannot stand at the Supreme Court.” It said evidence against President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) are very weighty, reason it is heading to the Supreme Court to uphold justice in the matter and salvage the nation from drifting towards impunity, anarchy and lawlessness. The PDP through the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, on Thursday, however, noted that for APC to be celebrating corrupt justice system and approval of perjury has shwon that the Buhari led administration has no conscience. “Our party is not surprised that Lai Mohammed, speaking for the Buhari administration, came short of calling for the arrest and prosecution of opposition members for coming before the Appeal Court a situation which exposed their belief that they own the court and can determine the position of the judiciary on any matter. “Notwithstanding, the PDP holds that Nigerians have seen the “several errors” in the judgment delivered by the Appeal Court and have turned the verdict to a butt of jokes in public space. “We invite Lai Mohammed to tell Nigerians if his Law Degree was awarded to him on the basis of a sworn affidavit and pictures of his classmates; or was his Call to Bar at the Nigerian Law School also based on presentation of pictures and affidavit?” Ologbondiyan asked. At the moment, “the PDP counsels Lai Mohammed to redeem his image by offering explanations to Nigerians on his alleged role in the N2.5 billion National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) fraud before casting aspersion on others.”  SOLOMON AYADO, Abuja