In a bid to promote fashion designers across Nigeria and give upcoming designers the opportunity to network and build their brand, the maiden edition of Abuja Fashion Summit and Show is set to create this platform. The event which will motivate young designers and enthusiasts in Nigeria, give them a platform to air their opinions, network and connect with the big names in the industry, will hold at Transcorp Hilton Hotel Abuja on October 11th to 12th, 2019. Morolake Oluwakunmi Nwokoro, Convener of the event told BD Sunday that the event which will host over 150 fashion designers and 50 exhibitors across the country will get upcoming designers equipped in areas of technology, finance and a lot more. Read Also: Fashion Focus Talks fosters community in fashion industries in Africa “The summit and Show is free and people just need to pre-register to attend the event. We have high profile personalities coming for the event. We are strongly hoping that the vice president would be the key note speaker because we have sent letters to him and we trust that he will come. “This is a platform of public-private collaboration, so we are hoping that he would come. We are expecting some senators, House of Rep members and some first ladies. “Having being endorsed by the Federal Ministry of Industry Trade and Investment, we are expecting them to be fully represented at the event. Abuja Enterprise Agency, and Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC), amongst others will be fully represented” Nwokoro added. She mentioned that some of the activities that will take place in the summit include talk sessions on technology, finance, and fashion amongst others. “We will be talking about challenges, excitements and the future of the fashion industry. We will have session on impact of Nigeria Fashion Industry and growing the Nigerian economy. We will have a panellist session where issues impacting the industry will be addressed. “The second day, which is the day of the show, there will be red carpet at 4pm and the show will begin at 6pm. There will be an Award night, fashion show and music. We will be having the presence of our brand ambassador, Shafy Bello,” she said. Nwokoro however mentioned some challenges facing the fashion industry to include finance in order to increase employment opportunities, insufficient resource materials for the production of local textiles and fabrics, lack of good retail culture, inadequate power supply, insecurity and smuggling in of low quality textiles, amongst others.