This weekend, OkadaBooks takes you on a ride with incredible and suspense filled love stories. Read Also :  OkadaBooks for the Weekend Featuring Be my Valentine BLACK CUPID by Busayo Dimeji This book focuses on the lives of two undergraduate girls, Chioma and Funke. While in her teens, Chioma was betroth to an older family friend and she starts to rebel because of this. Funke on the other hand is in an abusive relationship with a man who unbeknownst to her is already married. Follow their lives, the decisions they make at each point in their journey, their highs and lows. Read Now THE BLUE BEARD MAN by Maureen Isaiah Mr. Abubakar’s wife had just died and she’s not the first as the five wives before her had died through mysterious circumstances. What is happening? Nobody wants to talk about it, but the neighbour’s children are becoming suspicious. Do you think they’ll find out the truth? Read this story filled with suspense and adventure and discover how Cynthia helped uncover the truth about the dead wives.Read Now EYIN ESE by Tomilola Coco Adeyemo Princess Adeola’s secret desire to rule her father’s Kingdom is suddenly sabotaged by the ruggedly handsome and dangerous enemy, Oyekunle of Tede. This is quickly followed by murder, lots of blood, spilling of secrets and two hearts entangled in forbidden love. However, Adeola’s insane romance with the enemy isn’t the only thing that poses a threat to her desires, the enemy within she will never see coming also awaits her with his own plans. Read Now. WHEN THE HEART KNOWS by Chioma Onouha HIS HAZEL EYE WITCH Billionaire bad boy Uche Okoha had sworn off relationship and marriage after his ex fiance ran off with his business partner, his pact with the women folk was take as much as he is giving and he certainly had more than enough to give. Nma had her life well planned to the finest tips. She owned a successful fashion house, She was young and amazingly beautiful, smart and very reserved, only dating sparingly, keeping everything platonic until she would get married. Then she met Uche Okoha the most eligible bachelor in the country and worst playboy ever. They both knew it wouldn’t work. They are both from different worlds but their hearts seem to know something they didn’t, when love comes calling we have no choice. Read Now