National Chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole said the party will win the forthcoming November 16th governorship election. This is just as Oshiomhole has thrown his full weight behind its governorship candidate and incumbent Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello. Oshiomhole who spoke to State House Correspondents after he formerly presented Governor Bello to President Muhammmadu Buhari as the party’s flag bearers for the November 16 election, at the weekend, described the party primary as “peace free and fair” Speaking on the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP, Oshiomhole said “We are in a democracy, we believe we will defeat him, we are not going to walk over him, we will contest with him and we will defeat him clearly and squarely. Governor Yahaya Bello was overwhelmingly given the mandate by majority of delegates, scoring 3,012, out of 3300 votes. “So, this was a process that was transparent, nobody can say the governor was influenced or induced, we are very proud of the leadership he provided in the exercise and it went very smoothly. “When you compare that excise to the one done by the PDP few days back in Kogi state, you will appreciate why we are very happy and excited that our own process went smoothly. Oshiomhole said the President was very excited about the conduct of the primary in Kogi state, adding that “my dear friend and brother emerged the winner and we are now preparing for the conduct of the election in Kogi God willing on November 16th. He assured that the party was working to bring all the contestants together to back the incumbent for the election proper. “I think Governor Bello has shown that he has capacity and going forward he would have learnt couple of lessons in his first term. I have passed through that process and I know that your second term is always the time you want to do those legacy project you will like to be remembered for. “Because, the only benefits in this business is that when I leave, what would I be remembered for? The things that will drive Governor Yahaya Bello second term is what will be at the heart of our campaign. “We have also seen the candidate nominated by the PDP, we want to make sure when we go to the field of play, Kogi people, the people will have no problems voting for our candidate in Kogi state as their preferred candidate. Also speaking on his chances after his formal presentation, Governor Yahaya Bello, said his victory is “ assured” He also described Kogi State as “the second safest state in Nigeria today” “I didn’t say it. We have various bodies that rate the performance of various government and administration, Nigeria Bureau of statistics and the rest of them, they said it. “So if you look at it, we have performed so wonderfully that the people of Kogi state are eager that 16th November should come and let them speak with their votes and I know they will speak very well and re-elect me, the APC and we shall become victorious. “If you look at Kogi State in the past, if you are a traveler you will hold your breath. The inhabitants as early as 6:30 they will only manage to pray their morning prayer and in the evening they will manage to pray their evening prayer and go to bed, but today, even along the streets of Kogi you will see people jogging, exercise, night life is back as a result of improved security situation in the state today.”  Tony Ailemen, Abuja