Students in Akinlade Primary School, Okun Mopo can look forward to improved learning experiences with the upgrade of facilities in the school, including the renovation of 10 classroom blocks, provision of 80 new classroom furniture and educational materials, installation of iron windows and doors. MainOne, one of the biggest broadband infrastructure companies in West Africa, noted in a statement that the gesture was part of its contributions to uplifting the standard of education in its local communities. The company has also been supporting the school since 2011. “It is a school that has a special place in our hearts as, over the years we have been invested in identifying their various needs, exploring their required provisions and witnessed the academic growth of the pupils,” Tinuola Ipadeola, head of Corporate Services, MainOne said. The initiative is also part of the company’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) goals, which aims at building a stronger connection with the Ogombo. The renovation of the school follows previous years of investment into the school such as; the replacement of the school gate, donations of over 1000 library books and several teaching materials. “This shows that we are committed to nurturing younger generations of innovators and technology giants through the provision of basic educational materials and conducive learning environment, one community at a time,” Gbenga Adegbiji, general manager, MDXi (MainOne Subsidiary). In his response, Gabriel Aborisade, Head Teacher of Akinlade Primary School, expressed his appreciation by stating “We commend MainOne on this laudable transformation. They have been consistent in their support of our school over the years and we appreciate that our pupils have been inspired to study harder and allowed to learn in a school they are proud of.” MainOne’s commitment to the community schools was commended by SUBEB representatives, who urged the company to continue its good work while encouraging other organizations to emulate MainOne by adopting more community schools. Also, in attendance were the leaders and members of the community. Since 2011, MainOne has been involved in the development of Primary Schools in Ogombo, Okun Ajah and Okun Mopo with yearly donations of study materials including school bags, text and exercise books, and renovation of critical infrastructure facilities. The company’s contribution to the development of these schools forms a part of its Corporate Social Responsibility focus on Education and Information and Communications Technology. MainOne is also a leading sponsor of the annual Software Competition organized by the Institute of Software Practitioners of Nigeria; the T.E.N.T gathering of Paradigm Initiative Nigeria, the Girls-In-ICT Day, W-TEC Girls, as well as ideation and innovation initiatives, such as Demo Africa, the Co-Creation Hub, and L5Lab, Edo Innovation Hub among others.  