Nigeria’s travel and tourism industry is again receiving a major boost with the 2019 Akwaaba Travel Market. The three days event, which held from 22nd to 24th of September, 2019 hosted several travel, aviation and tourism events, some of which included food fairs, (Jollof Rice contest between Nigeria, Ghana, Gambia); exhibitions, networking, Africa Youth Tourism session (Paper and panel discussions), Aviation day (paper and panel discussion), boat cruise on the Five Cowrie Creek and the city tour of Lagos including Nike Art Gallery and Eko Atlantic amongst others. With colourful display by Carnival Calabar dancers, Lagos State dance troupe and Eyo dancers and the Jollof Rice war, among others, exhibitors and visitors were thrilled to fun at the only travel market in Nigeria. The Expo, which witnessed more exhibitors from Africa, Asia and the Caribbean, was declared open at about 3.pm by the man popularly known as the father of Tourism in Nigeria, Chief Mike Amachree. Speaking during the event, Firiehiwot Mekonnen, the general manager, Ethiopian Airlines in Nigeria said Akwaaba helps promote Africa and Nigeria as a destination. “There are a lot of activities going on here, a lot of cultural exchange which is very interesting and important because we need that cultural exchange to boost our economy. So these are the kind of things that we need to promote Africa. “Akwaaba is one of the platforms we always use to promote Ethiopia as a destination and as an airline. We are one of the major sponsors and on the aviation day, Ethiopian airline will host the dinner. So people will enjoy the Ethiopian food and coffee ceremony,” Mekonnen said. “Addis Ababa has taken over from Dubai as a transit for African airlines which is a very good thing for Africa and makes Africa proud. We are doing everything we can to sustain this tempo but it is not one airline that can do this. All African carriers will have to come together, stand together and support each other to sustain this achievement for Africa. So, all Africans and stakeholders will work together to sustain this,” she said. On traffic increase to Addis as a result of the xenophobic attack, she said there is an increase in traffic to Addis now but it may not be related to the xenophobic attack. “The transit traffic has been increasing drastically not just in the last three weeks,” she added. The Expo, which witnessed more exhibitors from Africa, Asia and the Caribbean, was declared opened on Sunday at about 3.pm by Mike Amachree, the man popularly known as the father of Tourism in Nigeria. While charging Africans on Unity, he called all to support an initiative such as Akwaaba to foster good relationship among Africans and other nationals. Ikechi Uko, organiser of the event spoke on how it took him 15 years to convince the Caribbeans to attend the programme. “You know this Expo started 15 years ago and we have been trying bring the Caribbeans back to their route but we are happy they are here to participate in this edition “, he said. He also expressed appreciation to Lagos State for its support for tourism initiatives in the state, both from private and government stance. Other tourism personalities who witnessed the opening ceremonies are Otunba Olusegun Runsewe, Florence Ita-Giwa, among others. A large number of exhibitors came from Dubai under the auspices of Dubai Tourism, the Gambia tourism, Ethiopian airlines, Lagos State tourism board, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, (FAAN), Accident Investigation Bureau, (AIB), We Sabi travel, Ghana tourism, Carnival Calabar troupe, among others were on ground to exhibit their products and services.