With the objective to build the capacity of Nigeria’s unemployed population, Inlaks, ICT infrastructure solutions provider embarked on the Inlaks ATM Academy, a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) platform, and has recently completed its third edition, graduating a total of 57 Automated Teller Machine (ATM) engineers since it started in 2016. The six month long program seeks to train technically-inclined graduates, giving them a complete knowledge of the rudiments of an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) service for the purpose of building a team of ATM experienced engineers who are well qualified for recruitment within Inlaks, locally and internationally. The curriculum of the program also involves customer management, store and inventory management, logistic operation, power system engineering and Printed Circuit Board (PCB) technology. The Inlaks ATM Academy which is free of charge has efficiently graduated 57 students till date with 16 trainees from ATM Academy 3.0 being given an intensive and practical-based ATM training and eventually being inducted as ATM support staff in this leading ICT company. Femi Adeoti, MD/CEO Africa operations, Inlaks expressed his pleasure at the successful completion of ATM Academy 3.0 while applauding the team for delivering a world-class training and congratulating the team on their new roles as the ATM Feeder Team. Tope Dare, executive director, infrastructure business at Inlaks shed more light on the weighty significance of the program, saying that; “Unlike most things that can be searched out on the internet, adequate knowledge of Automated Teller Machine services will require a deliberate training to gain the status of an ATM engineer. It is a great opportunity for the selected candidates as the ATM training comes with a job opportunity.” Inlaks, a partner of Hyosung TNS, a global leader in ATM manufacturing services is known for supplying, installing and maintaining over 6000 ATM’s within Nigeria and Africa. It is therefore needful to properly groom a well versed team capable of handling the ever evolving nature of the ATM industry and improve the company’s capacity to service its present and prospective customers. Applicants to the Academy are required to hold an Ordinary National Diploma (OND) in Engineering or Physics as well as scale other assessment stages to be qualified. Inlaks is a leading system integrator in Sub-Saharan Africa. The company partners leading OEMs in the technology industry to provide world-class information technology solutions that exceed the needs of its customers. Over the years, Inlaks has built a reputation as the foremost ICT and Infrastructure Solutions Provider, helping customers effectively seize new market and service opportunities. With an impressive customer base that includes six Central Banks in West Africa, 18 of the 24 banks in Nigeria and other major customers in the West African region, Inlaks has become a well known Information Technology Company in Africa.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson