iSON BPO, the leading Customer Experience Management Provider in Africa, with strong focus in Sub-Saharan Africa, emerged winner of the keenly contested BPO Contact Centre of the Year awards at the 2019 Beacon of ICT Distinguished Lecture/Awards Series. The event was held on Saturday, April 27, 2019 at the prestigious at Eko Hotels and Suites, Lagos. Beacon of ICT Distinguished Lecture/Awards Series, is widely regarded as the most prestigious annual event available in the ICT industry in Nigeria is in its tenth edition. The Distinguished Lecture is aimed at charting the way forward for the country’s ICT sector while the award ceremony rewards best practices and recognizes outstanding contributions to the growth of the sector. The theme of this year’s celebration is “Telcos and Banks Partnership to Drive Financial Inclusion.” It examined efforts to empower Nigerians to boost financial growth and development. The event brought together top politicians and government functionaries as well as captains in the ICT industry and financial institutions. Commenting on the awards, Pravin Kumar, Global CEO, iSON BPO said, “While we have been very satisfied with our journey in Africa over last 8 years, we have seen maximum growth in Nigeria due to excellent quality of Nigerian youth, always willing to learn more and excel in their work. This Award is a wonderful acknowledgement of our sustained innovative contributions to the growth of the ICT industry in Nigeria. We are indeed encouraged to further develop our technology and continue to deliver excellent services for the success of our clients. I am so proud of all the team and their hard work and dedication which has led to this amazing moment. Our colleagues are absolutely thrilled with the win which is the result of a wonderful team collaboration harnessing everyone’s skills and experience”. The awards acknowledge iSON BPO’s expertise in enabling organizations to deliver transformative customer experiences, helping organizations to move from transactional processing to customer lifecycle management (CLM), enabling monitoring and reduction of cost per customer while increasing Average Revenue Per User (ARPU) & Retention. The Company has been recognized for its ability to deliver and manage end-to-end contact centre and digital transformation solutions. 