As the race for the Speaker of the House of Representatives gets tougher, Chike Okafor, Member representing Ehime Mbano/Ihitte Uboma/Obowo Federal Constituency of Imo State has told the leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to sacrifice Femi Gbajabiamila, the party’s anointed candidate for national unity. Recall that the APC leadership recently adopted Gbajabiamila as its candidate for the office of the Speaker in the 9th Assembly on the basis of his competence and legislative experience. But Okafor, a member of the party who is also contesting for the position of Speaker of the House said on Monday that, “The party should be able to able to accommodate social justice, fairness, to embrace unity”. The second term lawmaker while declaring his intention to vie for the House Speaker argued that, “Party will also find competence and merit in other people who are also aspiring. We are not saying sacrifice merit and competence and go and pick a neophyte or go and pick a non-ranking member. No. That is not what we are saying and I will not stand here because of my ambition and not allude to the fact that the party’s choice is ably qualified. “But you, I and the whole country is saying that there are other things that should be considered. Southwest have the Vice President sitting in that place. Why? Is it that you no longer can find any competent person with merit that can occupy the position that is why you want to say “the  whole of the South-east, you can go to hell and stay there, North-central go to hell and stay there. That is what we are saying. The party should consider that and if you love the country– we all including Femi Gbajabiamila love the country – they should look at that”. He called on APC to concede the position of the Speaker to the South-east to make the zone has some sense of belonging and to increase the support base of the party in the region ahead of the 2023 general elections. “What are we going to say to the South-east? I want to see APC extend some genuine goodwill to that zone and give us (the Speaker). I think the right time for APC to extend some sort of goodwill to these men and women like yours sincerely who stood against all odds to promote  the ideals of the party in that geopolitical zone, should have something. Even if he is  not deserving because of the number, let the party show some large heartedness and extend what a I call gesture of goodwill to us because of 2023. “I think the party can consciously help us in the South-east to sustain the improvement recorded between 2015 and 2019. The least APC will score in 2023 if some conscious attempt and effort are made to show some concern and encouragement to those of us who are supporting APC in the South-east. “APC will win minimum of two states out of five in the South-east come 2023 but the time to set the ball rolling and get the states set for that is now. And the only chance and opportunity I see is for the party to close it’s eyes and say, ‘South-east take the Speakership of the House of Representatives”, Okafor maintained. In his declamatory speech, Okafar said, “the issue of zoning and election of Principal Officers of the National Assembly is about the most important talking point for most legislators and other critical stakeholders, the media inclusive. While the position of the Senate President has been zoned by our party, the All Progressive Congress (APC), to the North-East, we are aware that the party is yet to zone the Speakership of the House of Representatives to any zone. “You are already aware of the clamour from across the country for equitable distribution of the principal offices of the National Assembly and most importantly, the recent push by several APC support groups from across the Northern states and the South-East calling on the party leadership to zone the Speakership of the 9th Assembly of the House of Representatives to the South-East. “In 2015, the APC denied the South-East principal-officer positions in the National Assembly on the ground that we did not have a ranking member under the APC. I was slated for leadership position then, but was eventually denied the position of Deputy Whip because I was a first timer, now I am back and ranking! “It needs no saying that the South-East, which was denied a leadership position in the ruling party leadership caucus of the 8th Assembly deserves compensation in the 9th Assembly. I am the appropriate vehicle for an equitable compensation to the South-East. “We are aware of some of the things you may have heard before now and the name already put in circulation as the automatic beneficiary of the Speakership position, and seeming exclusion of the South-East. It is however unthinkable that the APC will abandon the more than 400,000 of its supporters who voted for the party across the South-East, to cede the Speakership to a zone that already has the Vice President, the National leader of the APC and multiple grade-A appointments. “A ruling party doesn’t just look at the numbers alone; it also looks at National Interest; it looks at social justice; it considers political stability and harmony in the body politics; it feels the pulse of the Nation and weighs in on equitable inclusion of federating units of the country in line with the provisions of the constitution of the country and the party, even as it affects sharing of political offices and looking at all these indices, as a party, we have not given the South-East a fair deal! Not yet. “A critical review of the last general election would easily indicate that the South-East holds immense political prospect and our party needs to initiate efforts to bridge the inclusion gap as it affects the region and pave the way to extract some political capital from the region come 2023 and there is no better way to start than to zone the Speakership of the House of Representatives to the South-East. “When we joined the APC, we assured our people that we joined the party so that they could reap the dividend of mainstream politics. In the last four years we have comparatively little to show for the said dividend. But we soldiered on. In the last presidential election, we braced the challenges; dared the status quo, swum against the tide, staked our pride, put our lives and resources on the line just to give the party a strong foothold in the South-East. 403,000 votes for President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 Presidential election may not seem a big deal, but there is no geo-political zone in Nigeria that doubled its vote haul of 2015 in 2019 and improved on it performance in 2015 by more than 100% except the South-East! “In the 2015 Presidential election, the APC polled a total of 198,248 votes from across the five states of the South-East but in 2019, it polled a total of 403,958 votes from the same region. Buhari scored more than 25% in three states of the region. This is the first time he is scoring 25% in any state of the South-East. “Supporters of the party in the South-East also succeeded in whittling down the outrageous figures of the PDP in the region unlike the 2015 episode. In 2015 presidential election, the PDP scored approximately 2.4m votes while the APC polled 198,248 votes. But in 2019, the PDP dropped to 1.6m votes while the APC more than doubled its votes to 403, 958 votes. These efforts, speak eloquently of loyalty and diligent commitment to the party!. Our party must embrace the culture of political inclusion to be able to enlarge the space for effective leadership. “We should be the people’s party; the party entrenching and building democratic landmarks instead of the party that is deepening the lines of sectionalism. President Muhammadu Buhari inspires hope not just to some of us, but to the entire country. Following his victory, he declared that his victory is for all Nigerians and promised to run an all inclusive government. “It is expected the entire gamut of the party should align with the President and embrace the politics of inclusion. Whatever be the case, I am certain the leadership of our great party would desire the best for the leadership of the 9th Assembly and I come with requisite competences drawn from both private and public sector of our society. On his competence and vision for the House, he declared that, “from my training as a senior banker in the organised private sector to my public sector experiences as Finance Commissioner of my state and member of Federal  Allocation Accounts Committee, of the federation, (FAAC) for more than three years which gave me opportunity to interface with vital finance, revenue generating and economic agencies of the country like NNPC, Federal Ministry of Finance, Revenue Mobilisation and Fiscal Commission, Debt Management Office, (DMO), Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC), FIRS, CBN, and of course the Finance Commissioners of the other 36 states, built my capacity in no mean measure. “Legislative experience is very important, but good training, vast exposure to the entire workings of the economy, through years of playing in the organised private sector, and public sector, from the state level for three and half years, and now four years as a federal legislator would give me an edge over other contestants to the office of Speaker. “By my training and exposure, I have a better grasp of the economy than the others, and thus will be able to help steer the 9th Assembly, House of Representatives in line with current economic realities and in the process lead the Assembly in making laws and motions that will match up to current realities on ground, and further reinforce and fast track Nigeria’s economic recovery and growth plan. “I will be running to win and not for fun. And it might interest you to know that my acceptability cuts across board right from my state to the chambers”.