Nigerian London-based firm, Vivacity PR, has stressed on the need for Nigerians to leverage opportunities offered by the upcoming London Tech Week to fast-track economic growth and improve daily activities. The Tech Week, which holds from June 9th, 2019, is expected to address a series of issues across sectors of the economy, especially information and technology, oil and gas, finance and others. Kemi Areola, Chief Executive Officer of Vivacity PR, who are event partners and consultants to the organisation responsible for assisting Nigerians participate at the event, noted that Nigeria stands to benefit from the conference and exhibition. She stated that the international community from across the spectrum would be present at the event to address how access to tech for all can have a positive impact on society and business with the line-up of renowned speakers such as Chairman & CEO, British Airways, Alex Cruz, Executive Director, AI, UBS Group Technology, Artificial Intelligence, Annika Schröder, EMEA Vice President, Twitter, Bruce Daisley, and many others. The event would feature issues around ‘Blockchain for Business Summit’, The AI Summit’, ‘5G World’, ‘Future of Work Summit’ and other emerging issues; particularly on the fourth industrial revolution. The event aligns with the mandate of the ministry of Communications as well as ERGP of our government. Areola said: “This is one of the best opportunities we Nigerians have in terms of improving our businesses and the economy at large. We have witnessed remarkable growth in the telecommunications sector; we need to consolidate on this. We equally need to learn how to use technology to improve our economy and the way we live. This London Tech Week offers that opportunity,” he said.  “Technology is impacting communities and markets in unprecedented ways in Nigeria and at such remarkable speed that sets the country apart and propels the entire African continent forward; this transformation comes with a massive commercial potential for both local and international business.” According to her, as Nigeria’s facilitator for the event, Vivacity PR would assist as many Nigerians who are willing to attend the event. “We are open”.    