Impact Hub and the UNDP have collaborated to launch the third edition of Accelerate2030, a scale-readiness program for high-impact entrepreneurs tackling the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  The 2019 edition focuses on SDG 6; clean water and sanitation. Research has shown that more than 40% of the over 7 billion world population, still do not have access to water. In Nigeria, WaterAid International has revealed that we are at a precipice of a water, sanitation and hygiene catastrophe. The data for access to adequate water and sanitary facilities are significantly low. Over 60 million people live daily without water, 120 million people can’t afford to use proper toilets and 47 million people defecate in the open. If we must alleviate from these harsh and substandard conditions, then we must commit to actions that will change the lives of people living in abject poverty. Because the global challenges today outnumber the available solutions, A2030 is engaging communities to provide innovative results to some of the issues that affect quality living globally.  This effort will also be supported by WSSCC (Water Supply and Sanitation Collaborative Council) and Waterpreneurs (global Accelerate 2030 SDG6 partner), who will bring their expertise and skills to the Accelerate2030 programme. Both the WSSCC and Waterpreneurs have been active in Nigeria working to improve sanitation and hygiene at scale. In collaboration with both partners, they will be making our hopes of achieving SDG 6 a reality to transform lives.  Impact-driven ventures are invited to apply Accelerate2030 is targeted at entrepreneurs with innovative and scalable solutions to the world’s key challenges, including poverty, clean water, sanitation, health and wellbeing. The program offers selected ventures the expertise and support to shape their scaling strategy, working with key partners, experienced consultants and sector experts. 10 ventures globally will additionally be offered a highly tailored program for international scaling, starting with the Social Good Summit and a Global Scaling Week in Geneva.  Global connections to the UN, the private sector and investors Last year Accelerate2030 ventures were featured in major global forums, including the Social Good Summit Geneva and the 73rd United Nations General Assembly in New York, connecting with key representatives of the private sector, government officials, international organizations, and impact investors. “New ideas and experiments to tackle old problems through partnership are pivotal to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). That’s exactly what the Social Good Summit Geneva delivers, bringing together entrepreneurs, investors, the public sector, and other key stakeholders to scale up innovative, impactful, and scalable solutions for the SDGs. Switzerland is a natural space for these communities to network, learn from each other, and access transformational investment opportunities” notes Sarah Bel, UNDP Geneva.  Over 100% increase in beneficiaries reached Ventures from the last edition of Accelerate2030 scaled to 12 new markets, increased their number of beneficiaries by more than 100% and increased employment by 41%. Examples of supported ventures include HearX from South Africa, enabling thousands of children access affordable and accurate hearing diagnostics. Brazilian venture PiiPee has transformed the sanitation world, with their innovation of waterless toilet flushing having saved over 18 million liters of water. “We are very passionate about working with entrepreneurs that tackle problems as important as education in remote areas, access to healthcare and clean energy. We have seen such amazing results working with an international network of partners, and are expecting even more for this edition”, says Santu Boëthius, initiator of Accelerate2030 and co-founder of Impact Hub Geneva.   For more information & interview requests, please contact:  Impact Hub Lagos Orinayo Ayodele Accelerate2030 Nigeria Manager 0809 144 4098 orin.ayodele@impacthub.net  For more information on the program: https://nigeria.accelerate2030.net/ 