The TOTAL Group has restated its commitment to the long term development of Nigeria’s oil and gas industry and the improvement of the lives of Nigerians through the provision of clean, affordable energy. Total’s Chairman and CEO, Patrick Pouyanne made the disclosure at a courtesy visit to Nigeria’s Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, on Tuesday April 30, 2019, in Abuja, using the opportunity to congratulate the President and the VP for their recent victory at the polls. While reviewing the TOTAL Group’s 60-year sojourn in Nigeria, Pouyanne expressed delight at the recent launch of the Egina field which at peak will add 200,000 barrels of oil per day to Nigeria’s production apart from the Nigerian content landmarks which have become a game changer in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry. “Nigeria is important to the TOTAL Group as the country now represents about 10 percent of the group’s global production. Nigeria has a lot of prolific oil fields and Total would gladly carry out exploration activities if the government grants the licence,” Pouyanne said. Pouyanne identified solar technology as “a cheap way to provide electricity”, while expressing the company’s readiness to work with Nigeria in the area of renewal energy especially solar in addressing the country’s electricity needs. “After Egina, Total is launching two other projects Ikike and Prowei. Total is actively involved in the expansion of NLNG capacity through the Train 7+ project for which a Final Investment Decision is planned in 2019,” Pouyanne. In his response, Osinbajo thanked Total for its demonstrated commitment to the development of Nigeria’s oil and gas industry expressing delight at Total’s Nigerian content feat with the Egina FPSO. He implored Total and its other partners to quickly bring the NLNG train 7 into operation. “The supply of gas to the domestic market is important to government. We are pleased with Total for its initiatives in the area of renewable energy and would want Total to take some pioneering steps in helping meet the energy needs of the teeming population. Nigeria considers Total a strategic partner. We would like the relationship to continue,” Osinbajo said. Ibe Kachikwu, Nigeria’s Minister of State for Petroleum, commended Total for Egina which he said “renewed hope in the oil and gas industry” and promised to work with the office of the VP in order to address concerns regarding exploration adding that Total should “explore the need for siting a refinery in Nigeria as a way of consolidating its foothold on the downstream sector where it is a dominant player. Pouyanne had earlier paid a visit to Maikanti Baru, Group Managing Director, NNPC who commended Total for its vast contributions to Nigeria, describing the company as “the most integrated oil and gas company in Nigeria.”  FRANK UZUEGBUNAM