Vice President Yomi Osinbajo is currently presiding over strategic initiatives that are aimed at charting the right roadmap for the newly elected and returning Governors. The program which is an initiative of the Presidency and the Nigeria Governors Forum tagged “ induction of new and returning Governors” is aimed at exposing the Governors to the challenges and prospects of governance. It is also aimed at brainstorming of how to deal with the challenges, drawing from the experience of the incumbent Governors. It is also aimed at supporting incoming governors to develop key governance and management skills that will enable them transition from campaigning to managing the processes of governance. It will help in Preparing Governors to make the most of their transition from campaigning to governing and building bridges for effective leadership. Deepening the knowledge and skills of Governors on the principles of governance and shaping their disposition and outlook to align with their work and motivation levels and create a platform that will enable governors to fully understand the philosophies, responsibilities, organization, and cultural values, along with key processes of governance. Others include creating an opportunity for peer learning, promotion of global best practices and networking with national and global leaders, and point the Governors to relevant contemporary national priorities in critical sectors of the economy and driving consensus on opportunities to achieve desired outcomes. The four days program, according to the NGF, will be multilayered and interactive. It will feature plenary presentations and discussions by key stakeholders with diverse experiences. This is aimed at generating conversation among the newly elected Governors, respected national and international leaders, heads of national institutions and development partners, among others.
Critical stakeholders, including current and past governors of Nigeria and the United States, are also expected to provide the opportunity for Nigerian governors to, not only network with national and global leaders, but also to gather useful information that will help them transition into their new roles as chief executives of States. Former Governors are also billed to share their knowledge and skills honed on the nuances of governance to better equip the new ones to hit the ground running
Details later.