Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun state has declared that he would not toe the path of former governor Gbenga Daniel in handing over power to Governor-elect, Dapo Abiodun on the eve of May 29th, 2019 Nigeria’s official handover date, saying the Government House at Oke-Igbein in Abeokuta was not ready for occupation in 2011 when Daniel handed over power. The governor, who represented by Taiwo Adeoluwa, the Secretary to the State Government at a meeting in Abeokuta on Monday with the transition committee of the Governor-elect being led by Deputy Governor-elect, Noimot Salako-Oyedele, stated that contrary to what he and his cabinet members experienced during his reign as governor, he would ensure that there would be a smooth handover of government to the Governor-elect and his followers. While narrating the nasty experience he and his cabinet underwent immediately after the handover of government from then outgoing governor Daniel and his incoming government in 2011, Governor Amosun disclosed that he together with other cabinet members squatted for several months after the handover due to the untidiness of the Government House which was not available until he was able to put things in order himself. BusinessDay reports Governor Amosun just like former Governor Daniel failed to impose his successor since he worked against Abiodun who was candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the March 9 gubernatorial poll, while supporting Adekunle Akinlade of the Allied People’s Movement (APM). He however noted that the keys to the Government House and the Presidential Lodge are ready if the Governor-elect intends to move in tomorrow, just as the comprehensive handover note is ready to presented to Abiodun on May 28 as part of effort to ensure a seamless transition of government in the state. He said “We will be in position to hand over a comprehensive handover note to you on May 28, 2019. By God’s grace, 28th of May, 2019, we can’t sit down like this and hand over to you. We have not been sleeping so as to have a smooth running of the transition . “Government House ,Oke-Igbein is ready, If you want to move in tomorrow. Both the Presidential Lodge and Government House are ready . As soon as you tell us when you need the keys, we will make them available.” Meanwhile, Noimot Salako-Oyedele, the Deputy Governor-elect while speaking with journalists, expressed satisfaction with all the handover arrangements and on the government’s preparation for the transition on May 29, 2019, saying they would also on their part ensure a smooth transition of government from same All Progressives Congress (APC).  RAZAQ AYINLA, Abeokuta