The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Presidency of replacing all the servers in the Commission’s headquarters and offices in all states of the federation to destroy the actual Presidential election results transmitted from the polling centers across the nation. The main opposition party alleged that INEC leadership and the Presidency had sent computer experts to the Commission’s offices across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). This, the party said, was with a view to switching the servers, mutilate vital information in the system and attempt to erase all trails of transmitted results to the main server. A statement on Monday by Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP National Publicity Secretary, insisted on forensic examination of all relevant documents and equipment used for the February 23, 2019 Presidential election. He said: “This is completely reprehensible and further exposes the culpability of INEC in the manipulation and rigging of the 2019 Presidential election. “The PDP has been well briefed on how the INEC leadership and officials of the Buhari Presidency became jittery and resorted to the desperate measure, after they realized that the servers have information of Atiku Abubakar’s victory at the election. “Moreover, our party has been informed about how the INEC leadership, several weeks after the election, used some compromised officials of the commission to manipulate voter registers in some states by ticking names of individuals who did not participate in the Presidential election, as having voted. This is with the view to using such to cover the fictitious results it wrote for the APC. “What INEC and the Buhari Presidency do not understand is that computer software and applications leave traces, signatures as well as footmark. Forensic investigation of the system will reveal the real votes transmitted from the polling centers, which show Atiku Abubakar as the winner of the election. “Our party will continue to be at alert as we stand with Nigerians to reclaim our stolen mandate at the tribunal and no amount of manipulations by INEC will detract from this national resolve”.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja