Oando Plc through its upstream subsidiary Oando Energy Resources has signed two Gas Supply Agreements (GSA) with the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas Limited (NLNG). The agreement is on the renewal of gas supply for the existing Trains 1-3 for a term of 10 years and for gas supply for the impending Train 7 for a term of 20 years. Today, under the terms of the current agreement the NAOC Joint Venture (JV) made up of NNPC/NAOC/Oando has a total supply obligation of 850MMScf for Trains 1–6. The JV is specifically responsible for supplying a Daily Contract Quantity (DCQ) of 344.6MMscf/d for Trains 1-3 and 505MMscf/d for Trains 4-6, making the NAOC JV the second largest gas supplier to NLNG. The first GSA is a renewal of the gas supply terms for Trains 1-3. Read also: Seplat, Oando’s low price to cash flow ratio signals attractive valuations In addition to the JVs current supply to trains 1-6 and under the terms of the second agreement the JV will be responsible for supplying a DCQ of 294.7MMScf/d for Train 7. Train 7 is expected to come on stream in 2024, and will bring the JV’s total supply obligation to 1.1Bcf. The execution of these agreements also effectively monetizes ca. 3.3Tcf of gas for the NAOC JV of which 666Bcf will be net to Oando. The NLNG GSAs were signed by Tony Attah, Managing Director, NLNG; Massimiliano Bertona, General Manager Commercial & Negotiations, NAOC, representing Managing Director of NAOC; Mansur Sambo, Managing Director, NPDC and Wale Tinubu, Group Chief Executive, Oando Plc and the event was chaired by Mele Kolo Kyari, Group Managing Director, NNPC. Commenting on the agreement Tinubu said: “We are particularly pleased to be the only indigenous company party to the NLNG supply agreement, testament to the potential of local players. The NLNG vehicle will support the Federal Government’s efforts to grow reserves, boost the country’s gas footprint and market share in the global LNG market and in-turn positively develop the Nigerian economy – a goal that we are aligned with and have always wholly endorsed. The signing of these two agreements confirms and consolidates our long-term partnership with NLNG; furthermore it is a validation of NLNG’s confidence in our operational track record. The execution of the GSA is another positive stride in our journey to becoming the leading independent exploration and production company; being a 20 year guaranteed income stream it will strengthen our financial position as well as demonstrate to our key stakeholders the Company’s growth potential. Finally by way of this agreement and in line with our increased focus on sustainability and social impact the JV is closer to its objective of achieving zero gas flare in the immediate future. We will continue to collaborate with our partners and other stakeholders in finding creative solutions to move both the industry and economy forward.” The execution of the two GSAs is a significant milestone for the Company, its JV partners, and NLNG. It satisfies a condition precedent for NLNG to take its Final Investment Decision (FID) on Train 7 and also guarantees continuous gas supply for its existing trains after the expiration of the current agreements. On Tuesday, the 17th of December BusinessDay will publish the result of a two-week undercover investigation into how N power volunteer teachers and corrupt school principals are stealing the government's N-power funds in state-run primary schools in Sokoto State.