In an effort to increase its market share in the smartphone space, and also promote locally made tech, Afrione has launched its latest smartphone, Cygnus X into the Nigeria market. Designed with the customer’s satisfaction in mind, the device comes fully equipped with a large 6.53-inch-high resolution water drop full display, with a Lumia Gradient cover. As the brand’s new line up of smartphone series under the sub-brand Cygnus, the phone is powered by a strong octa core 2.0 Ghz processor with 4GB RAM and 64GB internal memory for a smooth and fast multitasking switch operation and supports up to 256GB expandable storage. The Cygnus X also offers a high-end AI Camera with 20mp Selfie camera and rear dual 20mp plus 2mp camera, a 4000mah battery capacity, facial unlock ID, finger sensor as well as many other exciting features. “Cygnus X is making its debut in the market and we are confident it will meet our customers’ needs that will be a delight experience for them and satisfy the users in many ways,” said Bunmi Yagba, brand manager, Afrione Nigeria Limited. At the price of N44, 600, Yagba said the device is being launched at a very attractive End User price. “It is one phone that consumers will enjoy and they won’t regret owning it,” she said. Afrione Limited is a Manufacturing and Assembly unit for assembly of mobile phones, tablets PCs, and consumer electronics in Nigeria under the brand Afrione. The Assembly plant is fully equipped with a state-of-the-art laboratory for testing and quality control to produce international standard product, it was learnt. Sahir Berry- CEO Afrione Nigeria Limited, noted that in a bid to maintain customer satisfaction. “Customer satisfaction remains our key focus while maintaining upgraded technology, quality and after-sales service across the nation through our wide network of Service Centres which is our key strength by servicing our customers on any post sales challenge they may face with a minimum Turn-Around Time,” Berry said. He also stated, while speaking about the strides of the tech firm, that the organization had expanded its product portfolio with the launch of ‘Afrione Beats’ –a contemporary range of music gadgets, wireless ear pods, Bluetooth speakers, headsets, earphones and other accessories like power bank, “targeted at youth.” According to Yagba, the brand has the vision and opportunity to localize and promote the use of cutting-edge technology for manufacturing in mobility space in Nigeria, as well as provide employment opportunities for the youth. Revealing future plans, Berry said: “We will start assembling laptops in the near future.”  Anthony Nlebem & Desmond Okon