The British High Commission, through its UK-Nigeria Tech Hub, a program developed to stimulate the local digital economy and forge innovative partnerships between local tech sectors and international businesses to spur bilateral trade and investment between both countries, is sponsoring five of Nigeria’s most promising female technology entrepreneurs to the upcoming UK-Africa Investment summit.  The summit which will take place in the United Kingdom (UK) in January 2020, is UK’s flagship conference organised to boost investment and growth in Africa.  On Tuesday, the 17th of December BusinessDay will publish the result of a two-week undercover investigation into how N power volunteer teachers and corrupt school principals are stealing the government's N-power funds in state-run primary schools in Sokoto State. With over 500 online applications, and a pitching session from the top 10 entries, Damilola Emuze, founder of ScholarX – an EdFinTech company operatiig at the intersection of education and finance, Ifeoma Uddoh, founder of Shecluded – a credit inclusion company that provides women with access to credit, financial advisory and mentoring, Damilola Olokesusi, founder of Shuttlers Mobility – a platform than enables professionals and organisations share rides in corporate buses to and from work, Funmi Adewara, founder of Mobihealth – a platform that creates easier and faster access to medicines using tech and Keturah Ovio, founder of Limestart – a platform that financially includes unbanked small businesses in Africa’s informal sector, emerged top five and will be heading to the UK in January. Read also: Green technology in Lekki Pearl Estate lowers energy cost for residents The attendees will gain access to world-class mentoring, one on one time with UK investors and expert training to help scale their companies.  Speaking at the final pitching session held at the residence of the British Deputy High Commission in Lagos, Harriet Thompson, the British Deputy High Commissioner said; “we are pleased to be hosting this event, as it brings together several personal passions: support for women, whose empowerment is vital for Nigeria’s future prosperity and stability; support for technology entrepreneurship, which is also key for future growth and jobs; and support for a country which I’ve grown to love since my arrival in 2016.”  According to her, Nigeria is very important in the tech world, as its ICT sector accounts for over 11 percent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and its technology companies have attracted $300 million (+167% YoY) in funding, mainly from foreign investors.  The UK is trying to build and expand the technology eco-system in different ways. One of which is the establishment of its very own Tech Hub in Nigeria, which is headed by Honey Ogundeyi, director and funded by its department of digital, culture, media and sport. “The UK-Nigeria tech hub focuses on three key areas: skills and capability development, digital ecosystem building, and facilitating innovation collaborations between Nigerian and UK tech businesses. This will help to build skilled, entrepreneurial and networked populations which will create jobs and address digital inequality,” Ogundeyi said. 