The Teens Department of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), City of David, has concluded plans to hold its annual Genesis fashion show in Lagos. The show, which is the 5th in its series, aimed to encourage decent dressing among teenagers. Speaking at a press briefing to herald the event, Pastor Clement Okafor of the RCCG, City of David, said that the fashion show is scheduled to hold on December 16th 2019 and that it would feature teenage designers and models from different denominations. Okafor went further to explain that the show is also an opportunity for the young ones to discover their talents and follow it passionately. In addition, he said that the fashion show indicates that teenagers can dress decently and look nice at the same time. “Teens of today dress indecently, but with this show, we are trying to educate the world that one does not need to dress indecently before such an individual will look nice; you can dress decently and still look fashionable. “Most teens do not dress well, and such habit is formed at home; a situation where parents are not conscious of what their children put on. It ought not to be so; parents particularly mothers, should monitor what their children put on and that is teaching them values. They will hold on to such values wherever they find themselves tomorrow. They will not depart from following such values because it has formed part of their lives,” he said. ‘’We are not teaching them modeling, but we want to give them values and values are more important than money. There are family and societal values and when the societal value is conflicting, a child will go back to her family values. So, parents should inculcate family values in their wards, it is very crucial. You can imagine where there are no family values and that is the reason we have so many problems in the society today. The family is the bedrock of any society. Whatever that happens in the home transcends in to the society,’’ Okafor noted. Also speaking at the briefing, Pastor Shola Omotosho revealed that this year’s edition of the fashion show is tagged ‘dominate’ and that the show since its inception has brought about decency in dressing among the teenagers who participate in it. Enumerating the prizes for the teenager who will emerge as overall winner, he said, such youth will go home with the sum of three hundred thousand naira; the second will receive one hundred and fifty thousand naira, while the third position will win one hundred thousand naira. In addition, Omotosho said that the winners at the show will undergo five months’ mentorship programme that will enable them establish on their own. “The essence of the programme is also to encourage the young ones in the society to work hard in life, to acquire skills that will not only keep them busy but also make them financially balanced,’’ he said. Some of the teenage designers and models, who spoke during the media chat, lauded the church for supporting them in organising the show and assured their readiness to continue to be pacesetters in decent dressing in society. Ngozi Okplalakunne 