Oyo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and some purported members of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) in the state have been advised to stop their alleged “relentless and meaningless attacks” on Governor Seyi Makinde. Read Also:  Masked security men attack Makinde&#8217;s hotel in Lokoja Oyo Kajola Group (OKG), an Oyo State-based Socio-political Organisation that gave the advice, said that recent outbursts by the APC and ALGON on the management of local government matters by Governor Makinde can only be termed as the compulsive attitude of bad losers whose negative tendencies are completely unproductive. OKG, in a statement by its Media Coordinator, Adebayo Ayandele, which was made public in Ibadan on Tuesday, said the “criticisms against Makinde by the APC and ALGON are not only baseless but a clear demonstration of undemocratic tendencies by political actors who have unfortunately benefitted from the nation’s democracy.” “We can only urge them to stop being bad losers and stop the incessant display of undemocratic conducts, including their call for unconstitutional intervention in Oyo State,” the OKG said. The group stated that APC’s statement calling on President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Assembly to adopt undemocratic measures by illegally intervening in the issue of local government in Oyo State was not only a shameful faux pas, but a portrayal of the members of the APC and ALGON in Oyo State as namby-pamby democrats. The group further described Oyo APC’s call to President Buhari and the leadership of the National Assembly to prevail on Makinde on local government administration in Oyo State as a disgrace, noting that APC members in the state would have to avail themselves the opportunity of the free education policy of the Makinde administration and free distribution of textbooks to return to secondary school classrooms to learn Government and Civics Education, especially topics on federalism, democracy and government system. According to the group, the claim made by the APC that Makinde’s plans to appoint caretaker committees was an affront on the judiciary and a decision to position his lackeys in office was not only strange but totally baseless, especially coming from a party that administered local governments in Oyo State with caretaker committees for seven of its eight years in office. The group added that the claim that Makinde tried to ‘bribe’ known APC members appointed into the Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) by the immediate past government was a “wicked lie” from the rotten pit, noting that Makinde’s offer to pay the OYSIEC members off the appointment was lawful and well-intended. The Group advised Governor Makinde to go ahead if he so wishes to appoint caretaker chairmen for the local councils, as according to it, the move will enable the grassroots in Oyo State to feel the impact of government more than before. It noted that if the Governor decides to do so, he would not be committing any infraction on the laws of the land, pending the election into the councils. “On Monday, the Oyo State chapter of the APC, for the umpteenth time and in its characteristic frustrated manner, treated Nigerians to another round of its garrulous but baseless attacks on the Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde. Silence would have been the best answer for the ninnies that Oyo APC leaders and members have become ever since they lost the March 9, 2019 governorship election,” the group said.