Tecno has unveiled another iteration of its operating system, HiOS 5.5, and the release promises to be more personal and enhanced to serve users more powerfully in their daily lives than ever before with helpful tools and tailor-made features. The newest release first debuted on the Tecno Camon 12 series and has now made its way to the Tecno Spark 4. ‘The HiOS 5.5 delivers the most helpful features’ says the release in that it ‘provides a slew of immersive experience and creative features that not only improves the overall phone experience of users but also help users to be more productive in the longer run.’ It also ‘brings art to life with augmented reality (AR)’. The‘(AR) virtual canvas’ is essentially (a) futuristic finger painting (concept). ‘Many sculptors refer to their hands as a tool — and the HiOS 5.5 allows you to turn your fingers into sculptural brushes that you can use to paint in midair. Just by aiming your ‘device camera at an object, you can paint or spray on any place in reality within multiple spaces with awesome brushes, emojis, animations, and stickers. You can also work on your creations with friends, or show off your masterpieces to your tribe by sharing it with them’.  It also has a gesture call picker, which is a cool new way to respond to calls. The ‘HiOS 5.5 introduces a new ability to answer and end calls with simple fingers and palm gestures without having to physically touch your phone. This will allow you to simultaneously use your hands for other things like eating or washing clothes while also being able to conveniently answer important calls without touching your phone. You can now simply just use “V” gesture to answer the phone or wave your palm above your phone screen to reject the calls Also available is a faster and immersive game experience. This is ‘a dedicated Game Mode that comes equipped with a Game Assistant means you can now seamlessly neuter distracting apps or intrusive notifications like email, news, chats, and social media popup windows and calls to focus exclusively on gaming.’ ‘For that all-important message, it ‘also gives you the ability to remain on your screen without pausing your game and still reply chats and messages with floating windows without interrupting game play. You can also quickly go online to view game guides all while still remaining on your game screen.’ It further tells that you can ‘seamlessly enjoy heavy CPU power consuming games by boosting memory, turn on Wi-fi exclusively for the game, switch data SIM cards and more in-game without disrupting or exiting your game’ says the release. It also has a ‘closed eye detection’ feature. ‘Face recognition technology’ is said to have ‘been vastly upgraded so it can help you secure your phone in a more intelligent and smarter way.’ ‘Security has been stepped up a notch by making it impossible for your phone to be unlocked when your eyes are closed.’ The newly improved Face ID 2.0 is more intelligent and can detect eye-status of open, closed or sideways not only frontal faces but also for rotated or tilted head poses’ says the release The 5 .5 is ‘the smarter way to reach your favorite tools’ as it ‘comes with an upgrade to the smart panel- a shortcut capability that allows you to access any app or use any tool on your phone from any screen.‘ You can get things done faster by ‘simply swiping right on any screen to access your favorite feature. You can (also) easily snap a selfie or record a video from any screen without having to locate the camera app. The HiOS 5.5 is also said to ‘allow (one) to have the Hi Translate tool handy which means you can smartly translate an unfamiliar language to your language without having to leave your current screen.’ What will you also find on HiOS 5.5? Well, we are informed that ‘a new HiOS lab (that can be found in the HiOS 5.0) that allows you to test out features and tools still in development on an opt-in basis’. Find armed and waiting for trespassers ‘a new Face ID security system that helps you unlock your phone even when your eyes are closed’. A ‘smart data switcher that allows you to switch between the SIM cards you are using to connect to the internet in just one click. Finally, available is a ‘fingerprint reset password that allows you to reset your password using your fingerprint when you can’t remember your lock codes or patterns.  Ohio (z) Okhai Elakhe