Cisco, a global technology firm, seeks to promote the effectiveness and efficiency of small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs) in Nigeria by providing affordable, purpose built solutions to scale SMEs in Nigeria. The company recently announced its commitment to accelerate the digital development of the country by helping small businesses to grow in Nigeria through its provision of simple, secure and flexible portfolio of solutions. Speaking at a media roundtable ahead of the Cisco Small Business Summit set to take place in Lagos, Olakunle Oloruntimehin, the general manager, Cisco Nigeria and West African Countries said, “Cisco as an organization is specialized in SMEs and with the help of its authorized partners from Nigeria and abroad, will ensure that appropriate knowledge to thrive in a competitive market is disseminated to these SMEs.” “At Cisco we are focused on functionality, we are specialized in small businesses, we have also got architecture and we are working effectively with our authorized workers to disseminate the required knowledge needed to thrive SME in Nigeria,” he said. .Built under the Cisco “Designed for Business” brand, the small business portfolio delivers the right products at the right price for small businesses to thrive. To further accelerate growth, Cisco is doubling partner investments in Nigeria and creating an easy and frictionless experience for both partners and customers with faster response times and immediate access to expertise. According to Oloruntimehin; “Today, every business around the world is in a position where they have to strategize in order to stay ahead of the competition. At Cisco, we have become dedicated to helping these small businesses leverage emerging technologies to accelerate their growth, thereby providing a fair ground where every business no matter their size, can access the opportunity to realize the full potential of digitization in their operations”. Also commenting, Lela Omo-Ikirodah, small business manager of Cisco West Africa, said that digitization and technology are crucial areas of concentration for SME to thrive. “About 90 percent of businesses worldwide can be considered small or medium sized businesses. We at Cisco carried out some intense research to see what we can do globally to cater to this market, and I must say that Cisco is increasing the focus on small businesses globally. The Cisco Designed for Business portfolio delivers the right products at the right price for small businesses. It also provides increased investment in partner programs to incentivize partners who are focused in the small business space. The Small Business summit is a vital event for us because it is an opportunity for us to educate our partners on all these solutions available to help small businesses grow especially in Nigeria and West Africa,” Omo-Ikirodah said. Cisco says it will continue to invest in building a digital economy through its curated portfolio of products. The company offers a comprehensive package of products specifically designed for small businesses. The Cisco Designed for Business will offer solutions that enable small businesses to connect, compute and collaborate, securely. New additions to the portfolio include Cisco Business Wireless Access Points, a new Meraki Go full stack and the new Catalyst 1K switch, an affordable entry point to the world-class Catalyst range of switches for small business.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson