In its bid to boost agricultural productivity in the country, the National Varieties Release Committee (NVRC) has released 11 high yielding and quality crop varieties to farmers. The 11 varieties were selected out of a total of 20 crop varieties initially submitted to the sub – committee on crops for consideration for registration. Oladosu Awoyemi, chairman of the committee,   announced the release at the 28th meeting of the committee held at its secretariat, the National Centre for Genetic Resources and Biotechnology (NACGRAB), Ibadan,the Oyo state capital. Giving further details, Olusoji Olufajo, chairman of the technical sub – committee on crops, listed the new hybrid crops varieties as six maize, two castor, two yam, and one cowpea varieties. Olufajo,a professor said the first maize variety, Zuma 450 and second maize variety, Zuma 500, were released based on extra earliness and high grain yield. He said the other four maize varieties, SAMMAZ 56, SAMMAZ 57, SAMMAZ 58 and SAMMAZ 59, were approved for release based on high protein content, high pro-vitamin A content, high yield, and tolerance to multiple stress. Olufajo said the first Castor variety NCRICAS1, was released based on high seed yield and large endosperm. On the second castor variety, NCRICAS 2, the chairman said it was released based on high yield, high oil content, early maturity and good oil physicochemical properties. He announced that the first yam variety UMUDa 27, was released based on slow rate of oxidation, good taste and high dry matter. According to Olufajo, the second yam variety, UMUDa 28, was released based on good processing quality and good taste. With respect to the new cowpea variety, SAMPEA 20 – T, he said it was released based on resistance to legumes pod borer and early maturity. Olufajo used the occasion to express displeasure at the late submission of materials to the Secretariat adding that any late submission in the future would be rejected. NACGRAB’ Registrar, Sunday Aladele urged breeders, seed companies, and scientists to always submit the Distinct Uniformity Stability (DUS) requirements of their crop varieties with the crops. Aladele said a list of the requirements could be obtained anytime at NACGRAB. He reminded them that all crop varieties must meet the DUS requirements of being distinct, uniform and stable for acceptance not only in the country but in the West African sub -region.  REMI FEYISIPO, Ibadan.