IT Horizons Limited, Nigerian’s foremost Information and Communications Technology (ICT) company accomplished three fates by celebrating its seventh anniversary, its loyal customers and unveiling its new brand on November 29, 2019. The celebrations which took place at the Civil Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos was well attended by notable and distinguish members of the society such as Hakeem Fahm, Commissioner, Lagos State Ministry of Science and Technology, Babatunde Fajemirokun Chairman of the company and other guests. Olusegun Dada, the managing director of the company was excited, and appreciated the company’s clients for their loyalty, patronage and commitment to the company. “Firstly, it is through handwork that we got to seven years; secondly, we are also celebrating our amazing clients. We cannot talk about progress without appreciation to the people who have kept us in business,” “And finally,celebrating the unveiling of our rebranded company which we are reintroducing to you called “New IT Horizon”. The New IT Horizon is all about harnessing the chain reaction of ICT transformation and what this means for the clients is an invitation to be part of a transformation experience that yields tangible, on-going value, high –energy and emotionally exciting,” Dada further said The federal government recognizes the ICT sector as the enabler for developing other critical sectors including agriculture and manufacturing. Thus, in its drive to diversify the economy from oil and gas, the government is encouraging partnerships between local ICT companies and multinational/foreign investors. According to the National Bureau of Statistics, the contribution of the ICT sector to Gross Domestic Product rose to 11.34 per cent in the third quarter which is lower than 14.55 percent in the preceding quarter, but higher than 10.55 percent in the same quarter of last year. IT Horizons is a leading provider of network, collaboration solutions, data center transformation, cyber security, managed and outsourced services delivering an unbiased expertise through a team focused on customer satisfaction and driving transformation. And, one of her major achievements over the years is creating a new subsidiary company with solutions insight that is set to birth the new wave of software solutions called ‘Zojatech’. Zojatech is a software solutions company that helps with building relationships that elevate technology and people to reach new heights.  BUNMI BAILEY