Flytime Promotions presents its second edition of the Flytime Music Festival, 2019. Owners of the flagship Rhythm Unplugged, decided in 2018 to create a multi-day indoor concert to allow more guests enjoy the stellar performances and amazing stagecraft. For the seventh year in a row, the concert will be held at Eko Convention Centre in Lagos, Nigeria for 5 days; on the 20th, 21st, 22nd, 23rd and 25th December 2019. Festival Lineup DAY 1 – 20th December 2019, will kick off with Rhythm Unplugged, the longest-running concert in West Africa, with the hottest Nigerian artists and upcoming acts. American rapper and songwriter; Mase and Jamaican Reggae singer, songwriter, rapper; Koffee and several other surprise acts will grace the stage to thrill over 5,000 attendees. DAY 2 – 21st December 2019, will have attendees travelling down memory lane with American R&B and hip hop vocal group, Boyz II Men. Concert goers will remember last year when RBRM with Bobby Brown and Bel BivDeVoe shut down the stage! Boyz II Men will also be as mesmerizing, as they perform ‘End of the Road’, ‘I’ll Make Love to You’ and many more. Festival Owner and President Flytime Group, Cecil Hammond, said “We have always been proud to launch upcoming Nigerian artists to stardom from the Flytime stage. 2019 is no different as we introduce a new concert franchise, an Alternative style night. This is the focus of Day 3” DAY 3 – 22nd December 2019, will showcase Nigeria’s new unique sound with artists that are showcasing their musical freedom. The newest franchise to the Flytime Festival lineup with also star the hottest girl of the summer, American rapper, singer and songwriter; Megan Thee Stallion. 2019 as the celebration of 15 years, will play host to TWO headliner acts over two days. DAY 4- The headliner has been released! 23rd December 2019 will be “Everything Savage” with African Bad Gyal, Tiwa Savage. Concertgoers can expect a mind-blowing experience as the African queen of afro-pop, takes us back in time with songs like, ‘Love Me’, ‘KeleKele Love’ to the recent chart-topper; ‘49-99’. DAY 5 – 25th December 2019 is going to be LIT! The festival’s last day will be shut down only as the evening holds one of the biggest headlining concerts Lagos has ever seen. Expect a captivating show by a yet-to-be-disclosed, world-renowned, A-list Nigerian Artist, as Flytime Promotions treats guests to the biggest Christmas concert ever. 15 years in this industry isn’t an easy feat to achieve, Hammond proudly presented the “Evolution of Rhythm Unplugged“ documentary at a private screening held at Silverbird Cinemas, yesterday Wednesday 16 October. The one-hour film gives a rich background to the heritage and shows behind the scenes footage of what it takes to put together these shows. The 2019 Flytime Music Festival promises to be just as exciting with a carefully selected line-up of musicians and fan favorites from home and abroad. Tickets are NOW on sale on the website www.flytimemusicfestival.com For all ticket inquiries ‎+234 817 456 5603 or email hello@flytimemusicfestival.com  ABOUT FLY TIME PROMOTIONS Flytime Promotions is the foremost name in live entertainment and music promotion in Nigeria. Chief Executive Officer, Cecil Hammond started organizing concerts and promoting artists 15 years ago. Under his management, Flytime has hosted some of the most successful live entertainment events in Nigeria, working with both Nigerian and international artists. Flytime Promotions’ track record of successful productions include Rhythm Unplugged, the longest running concert in West Africa, Comedy Titans, artist headline concerts for Omawunmi, Wizkid, Iyanya, Olamide etc., The Entertainer album launch concert – D’banj, Mo Hits Label Concert, 2face Live, For Colored Girls (Nigerian Version), Bovi Man On Fire and most recently Flytime Music Festival 2018. The company is known for continuing to deliver, launch upcoming artists in stardom and raise the bar in live entertainment, bringing global standards to the Nigerian music entertainment scene. For all media-related inquiries, please contact motunrayo.martins@roberttaylormedia.com 