Enugu State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has dismissed as rumours the allegation that a former Senate President, Ken Nnamani had concluded plans to return to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). APC said there was no iota of truth in the speculation making the rounds, and that those spreading the rumours were mischief makers. Recall that an online media had recently exclusively reported that the former Senate boss and APC chieftain was making plans to return to his former party. Reacting to the report, Ben Nwoye, chairman of APC in Enugu State, said those behind the rumour hated APC and restated that it was a falsehood. He described the former President of the Senate as a patriotic Nigerian, pointing out that the former number three citizen worked hard for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari in the last general election. Read also: Buhari Swears-in 9 Perm Secs, Presides Over FEC Meeting He recalled that when the former Senate President joined the party, he spoke to the press and wondered why people were speculating that he was defecting. The Enugu APC chairman further recalled that Nnamani was in charge of the Buhari Campaign in the entire South in the last general election and played a useful role that helped the party to succeed in the south. He appealed to people to show some respect to leaders before they make any statement that would tarnish their image. Nwoye further advised people to consider the political interest of the South and the overall interest of the country as a whole before spreading falsehood. He insisted that politics is not driven by falsehood and character assassination, adding that Nnamani has the capacity to communicate to the public about his political position. “He has remained an active and valuable member of the APC and his reasoned opinion is highly valuable to the APC both at the regional and national levels,” he said. According to him, those who have orchestrated this falsehood should look for positive means of channelling their energy, politically.