 The International Conference and Expo on Research and Innovations in Agriculture (ICERIA 2019) by Agrobusiness Times in October, brought experts with experience in both the public and private sectors to deliberate on ways research and innovations can be used to advance agriculture in Nigeria. In a communiqué which has now been sent to capture the key deliberations, it was highlighted that; collaboration among the government, research institutes, farmers and processors in order to reap the economic benefits in the agricultural Industry is key. That the tripod relationship will also ensure that agro industries are sited in rural areas where they can add value than where they are currently located as this is germane to enhancing food security and economic advancement. It was also stated, “The federal government should not expect Nigeria’s transformation to happen through foreign direct investments and partnerships, and we must do it ourselves.”  It further stated that the Federal Government should develop policies that would distinguish the country in the areas of innovation, research and export of agricultural products. Read also: Update: Lagos Targets N43bn Investment In Agriculture over 5 Years “Government must ensure sustainable financing of all sectors involved in agriculture research and development. Funds are also needed to scale up off taking of research findings from the shelves of researchers and establishment of demonstration farms,” read another portion of the communiqué signed by Jim Rex-Lawson Moses, editor, Agrobusiness Times. Research institutions, according to the communiqués, also need to understand the business of commercializing research outcomes and innovations. They also need to understand research, synergy, collaboration and its benefits. “Nigeria is sitting on a keg of gunpowder with over 40 million unemployed youths. Accordingly, Nigeria’s mission has to match its vision and therefore must think at a scale that can solve her problems once and for all. “Farmers within the agriculture sector must be organized. There is also the need to build a bridge between farmers and research institutes,” it read. It further stated that no nation was ever able to transform into an industrial economy without first experiencing an agrarian transformation. It is thus imperative for governments both at the Federal and State levels to give priority attention to the agricultural sector. It called on the private sector to be the main drivers for the transformation of agriculture and for which government must put in place enabling and consistent policies in support of agribusiness.