From the Biblical perspective, thanksgiving as a form of gratitude to God for His immeasurable grace preserves one’s blessings, more like salt. When a farmer sows seeds and enjoys a bountiful harvest, at the end of the season, it is important to express gratitude to God. It takes both sacrifice and patience but to expect more food items to reap in the new year, one should be humble enough to express appreciation to the ultimate giver of life.This is in sync with the admonition given by Apostle Paul that: “in everything give thanks; for this is God’s will for you in Christ Jesus as seen in 1 Thessalonians 5:18. That is the assertion of none other than Farmer Seyi Davids, the Chief Executive Officer(CEO) of the wave-making Xtra-Large Farms, ably supported by wife, Moji Davids, who doubles as the Managing Director.He also noted that ever since the company began full operation no single investor has experienced untimely death. Only God, who the famers gleefully describe as limitless and Xtra-large could have done this. This inspiring statement was made at the recent Third edition of the Annual Thanksgiving ceremony of the company remains instructive.What the reader should glean from this piece therefore, are the inspiring testimonies given by some members of the Xtra-Large family(investors) who recently gathered at the postgraduate cafeteria to express immense gratitude to God for all they gained from the company over the past one year, 2019. For instance, several of the farmers had nothing but words of praise to God and the brains behind Xtra-Large Farms for their success stories as far asfarming was concerned in the outgoing year, 2019. They are all delighted that XTra-Large Farms is anchored on the principle of integrity as they keep to their promises. In fact, Farmer Toyin Oguntoye says the company is: “Number One in integrity” According to Mrs. Rachel Oba who has risen to the post of a ‘governor’ in the food network programme said that she and her son invested some years ago and “are now reaping bountifully”. She added with great Joy that soon their three-bedroom bungalow will be ready. As for Farmer Sola Ajayi who happens to be the first investor in the company and has brought in hundreds of people, he is inspired by the word of God in Habakkuk Chapter2 verse 2: “And the Lord answered me, and said, write the vision, and make it plain upon tables, that he may run that readeth it”. King James Version (KJV). On his part, Farmer RotimiOmidire, who could not hide his disappointment at his delay in investing in Xtra-Large Farms, pledged that he was back and ready to do the needful. Good enough for Farmer Mrs. Ola Amodu a recent investor who said it openly that she is happy to have taken that crucial decision when she did and not regretting it. Similar testimonies came from Dora, Ayodipe, Mrs. Ogbuloku and Ayodele as some of them described their experiences so far as “classic, wonderful, beautiful” and one said that she is “flabbergasted”! One of the outstanding investors, Farmer TemisewaBalogun who joined in 2017 who has also risen to the position of a governor saw the advert on WhatsApp and heard it on radio.She is into bothFood Network and investment in Xtratoken. She now eats healthy, organic food, such as wondermeal, sweet beans, ofada rice, vegetable oil, eggs, catfish, as supplied every month by Xtra- Large Farms. What more, she is on Food Salary of N10,000 monthly and was celebrated when she reached the National Stage with N100,000 cash and food items worth N60,000.She was on all-expenses paid trip to Dubai for nine days in November and along with other deserving farmers taken round to many places of tourist attraction in the United Arab Emirate, including Gracial Farms at Abu-dhabi! This raises the question as to what Xtra-Large Farms really offers to the wise investors. Interestingly, what began with vegetable farming and the invitation of interested farmers to partake in the program tagged ‘Recession Exemption’ back in 2016 with the promise of 100 per cent profit has since expanded into several other business ventures. These include Xtralarge all-organic Foods (Wondermeal, fish, vegetable oil, plantains, carrots), Centre for Practical Agricultural Training, Homes and Property, and the newly Xtra-large MicroFinance Bank. The icing on the sweet cake is the fast unfolding Agritech City predicated on cutting-edge technology. One can only imagine an Xtra-large University, Nursery and Primary schools, banks, shopping malls all located in a serene, airy vast city occupying 1,00 acres of land at the Idi-Iroko axis of Ogun State. And wait for this-an XtralargeFoodspital where ailments, including seemingly intractable ones are treated- purely on carefully selected food recommended to the patients. But all these mouth-watering dishes are just part of a larger picture of bringing together one million Nigerians who share in the vision of the goal-getting and highly resourceful Davids as a family of modern farmers. And why not? What began in 2016 some 17 members has since expanded into 15,000 members and counting. Also, the Xtralarge Food network that costs N8,500  to begin with continues to attract legions of investors. So is the Super Farmer Package for anyone willing to invest in farming without the physical rigours of acquiring land, cultivation, sowing or planting, weeding, tendering to the flourishing seedlings as well as harvest and marketing. All one needs do is to pay N100,000 for one allocation or N500,000 for five allocations, or even N1 million for ten allocations. Mind you, the land is yours for life. This is for farming that takes a little longer than vegetable growth and you stand to reap a bumper harvest of 100 per cent profit in 24 months! It looks unrealistic, isn’t it? Well, as the deluge of testimonies expressed during the event showed XtralargeFarms ”under promises but over delivers.” Is it the raring of snails, turkey, poultry, grass cutters or the cultivation of plantain and cassava? Xtralarge  Farms takes care of the entire process and you get paid directly into your bank account. Now you understand why it is referred to as “discovering the ATM in your soil”. And talking about the monetary aspect of the proposed Xtra-large City, the real deal is the Xtratoken. And what is this digital currency all about? Simply put it is the acceptable currency meant for all manner of transactions within the City.Good enough, unlike other digital currencies this has the focus of erecting programs on the agritech-driven currency. Billed to officially become valid for transactions as from June 2021, those interested now are given the opportunity to become part of the building process. With time they will benefit and get V.I.P treatment. It should however, be noted that it is not in any way a form of shares or debentures. It is not any form of securities either. In specific terms the currency will pay for entry into the Agritech City, pay for farming, farm produce, accommodation, pay for shopping, as tuition for the schools, for travels and all manner of leisure activities within it. As the Chairman/CEO has rightly noted: “Modern, technologically-driven agriculture is our future. We do not need to import any food item that we can produce locally here in Nigeria. My son is studying agriculture because I have enlightened him on the vast potentialities.