Edo State Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, weekend said those flexing muscles with the state governor, Godwin Obaseki underrated his political sagacity. Shaibu made the remarks during the annual hosting of journalists at his residence in Benin City. “Those characters that are flexing muscles, we know them; they will join us at the appropriate time. We are family members, they underrated the governor and did not know he is a man of strong will”, he said. The deputy governor, who said the 2020 governorship election would be the freest and most peaceful in the history of elections in the state, assured that Governor Godwin Obaseki will be victorious in the election. He however, urged the people not to be worried and disturbed with what is going on within the party, noting that in no distant time everything will be resolved. Shaibu, who said the Obaseki-led administration, has decided that good governance must return to the people, added that the people must lead and that the people’s voice must be heard. “Those things that make Edo State to be auto-pilot in terms of development, we shall continue to put them in place. If there are other things you feel we can do, you know we are always open, let us know because for us to continue doing those good things we must rely on your input. “So, on this effort that we have put in place and all the achievements that we have had; it is not because we are superhuman but because we are supported. I want to continue to count on that support and reassure you that Edo state will continue to move forward, and backward never”, he added. While commending the journalists for their support for the present administration, he assured that the government will continue to partner with the union in the socio-economic development of the state. He added that the annual reception for the journalists was his unique way of “saying thank God for giving us protection” and to also appreciate members of the Fourth Estate of the Realm.  IDRIS UMAR MOMOH & CHURCHILL OKORO, BENIN