President Muhammadu Buhari has again, debunked claims of nursing a third term ambition, insisting that he will not stand for re-election in 2023. The President stated this while reacting to statement credited to elder states man, Femi Falana that the President was nursing an underground move for a possible third term agenda in 2023, at the end of his current eight year’s rule. The President’s Spokesman, Garba Shehu In a statement described claims credited to the popularly acclaimed human rights lawyer and formerly unsuccessful opposition candidate for governor of Ekiti state, Femi Falana, as baseless He noted that Falana “has boarded the free-publicity train, full of those seeking personal media attention in claiming the president is planning a third term in office. “ To repeat: All and every claim that is made that suggest President Muhammadu Buhari will stand for a third term in office is false. He recalled the President’s earlier statement made on 2nd October 2019 to support his denial According to him, “ The Presidency wishes to correct internet-based gossip and uninformed media commentary regarding presidential term limits, given credence by so-called support groups, staging street demonstrations asking President Muhammadu Buhari to do a third term.
“There are no circumstances – nor set of circumstances – under which President Buhari may seek to amend the Constitution regarding the two-term term limit on holding office as President. “President Buhari intends to serve his full second elected term in office, ending 2023 – and then there shall be a general election in which he will not be a candidate. “There is not even the faintest possibility that this will change.
“It is important to note that there was a past attempt to change the Constitution to allow for the then incumbent president to stand for a third term. That attempt was wrong, unconstitutional – and rightly rebuffed. No such attempt will happen under this Presidency He described President Buhari as a democrat who respects the Constitution” adding that “ any activity aimed at altering the two-term limit will not succeed and shall never have his time nor support.” “The President will have nothing more to say on this matter – apart from to repeat this statement, ad infinitum – that he will not be seeking, accepting, nor standing for a third term. Buhari assured his supporters that they will continue , whether because they want a third term, or because they seek to make false claims for the purposes of their own publicity of the state Governor many ideas.