Get your bikes fuelled and ready for an adventure with Okadabooks this holiday! The Lie I Told Last Christmas by Ugochukwu Chinye-Ikejiunor Bruce is a simple guy whose life has been routinely. He has a fantastic job with a good salary, but nothing spectacular going on around him. He decided to create a lie just to spice up his Christmas, forgetting that it is just a small
period in a long year. He has left a big shoe for himself, can it fit? Read Now Boss Lady (A True Dream Novel) by Sinmisola Ogunyinka A TRUE DREAM novel is a short fiction story told from the character point-of-view on the romantic journey to getting married. It is true romance that should leave you warm and dreamy. She carried herself as an old maid, and being the head of her unit in the office didn’t help matters for Theresa’s heart. She was in love with her staff and didn’t know what to do about it, especially because Dino ignored her just as much as she did him. However, her lust drove her to the extreme, and Theresa would either lose her job or burst. Read Now A Very Essien Christmas (The Essiens #5) by Kiru Taye Catch up with the Essiens as they celebrate Christmas the very Essien way. Find out what’s going on with Felix & Ebony, Mark & Faith, Tony & Rita, Kola & Tari as well as Chief & Mrs Essien. Also, get a sneak peek into Freddie’s love life and upcoming story. As you’ve come to expect from the series, there will be some sexiness and surprises in this saga. Be ready for passion and romance in A Very Essien Christmas Please note that this book is best when read after the previous 4 books in the Essien series, otherwise readers may experience spoilers. Read Now Looking For Myself And My Phone Charger by Ivie M. Eke I am hopeful that you can relate with some of my own experiences and thoughts which I have described in this book-thoughts about love, life, lipsticks, Nigeria, technology, and everything in between. This book is a collection of poetry which features a mix of poems I have written on my blog, www.classicallyivy.com, and previously unpublished poems. .Read Now