ADE ADEFEKO is the Vice President, Corporate & Government Relations, also in charge of External Communication and Stakeholder Management at OLAM Nigeria, the largest agribusiness and Food Company in Nigeria, a subsidiary of OLAM International of Singapore, the parent company with presence in 70 countries.  He is also the current Chairman of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) Export Advocacy Group (NEXAG). Ade, the eclectic polyglot who recently turned 50, shared his life experiences and lessons learnt with KEMI AJUMOBI, including matters on his forte agriculture, among others. Excerpts Career trajectory For me, my career trajectory was a bit planned, but again, you know man proposes, God disposes but if God helps you plan it as well, it helps. I always told myself (and people who know me) that I’ve always wanted to be an ambassador at some point in my life, to represent Nigeria, outside the country positively. I started first of all by being a lecturer at Alliance Française because I have a degree in languages, French and Portuguese to be precise. After a while, I said to myself, ‘Do I want to continue lecturing?’ I lectured diplomats and people who wanted to have French as a second language. In my trajectory, I’ve been fairly successful, but I’ve never allowed the success that I have achieved affect me because I’ve always been a grounded person and my parents always told me one thing ‘remember the son of who you are’. I left Alliance Francaise and went to an oil service company so I have a bit of an understanding of oil and gas. From there, I went to British American Tobacco (BAT) and also as a graduate trainee at Eko International Bank.  After a while, I said to myself ‘six, seven years in one place, not much is happening, I need to explore other vistas’. So, I worked with a few more Banks here and there and found out that it was the same thing. Then, Societe General Bank (SGBN) came and Laolu Saraki said ‘Ade, come and be our head of corporate communications’. So I moved from managing branches, credit balance sheets and all that to doing what I think came natural to me, managing image, PR reputational management and all that. That’s where I started with SGBN. And since then, I’ve been director of public affairs and communication for Multichoice which is DSTV and in between that, I was a pundit for Super Sports, analysing English football. In between then, I started writing for Complete Sports in ThisDay. So I started with sports, that was my passion. People who know me, know that I’m an Arsenal supporter, I’ve been supporting Arsenal for almost 30 years. Moving to BAT, I worked there as Area Head of Communication for Nigeria, Benin, and Togo. I worked there for a couple of years and I said to myself, ‘Okay, I’ve had it’. I wanted to go to a place where I’ll have high impact and I felt that would be agriculture. Agriculture, to a large extent, contributes so much to our GDP and food security is very important. But Nigeria is a country of ‘anything goes’. The budget for agriculture is less than three or four percent. The Maputo Declaration says that nothing less than 10 percent of your budget should be allotted to Agriculture. Nigeria allots under three percent to agriculture and they want to be taken seriously? Transition to Olam I was headhunted for the job. I found myself in Olam eight years ago and after the interview, I was employed to head communications and government relations. I’ve often prided myself as a very good lobbyist. It’s important to give credit to my CEO who allows me to shine. One thing I appreciate about Olam is that, we are in 66 countries with 25 in Africa. We started in Nigeria 30 years ago. Olam makes sure that everything that I do, I do with responsibility, through corporate governance and following ethics. I just recently got appointed onto the board of MobiHealth. So you see, for Olam to allow me to go into that kind of board which is medical and which touches lives, I can tell I made the right choice to be working with them. Olam has been good to me and I think to a large extent we have been both good to ourselves if I must say so. They allow me thrive. Being Vice President It was an honour to be promoted. I’m a VP of Olam International. Olam International happens to be the holding company, so I’m an international staff, so I can work anywhere. Being present in 25 African countries, my roles include, but not limited to communication and lobbying. How is Olam keying into being a major contributor to the development of the Nigerian economy? Olam has been in Nigeria for 30 years. We play midstream, upstream and downstream. We’re into exports. We’re the largest exporter out of Nigeria after oil and gas. And we’re the second largest exporter out of Nigeria. What do we export? Cocoa, cashews, cotton, ginger, and the likes.  Our export is in the tune of millions of dollars. We have a huge farm in Nasarawa, but in spite of that, we still supply only 10 percent of Nigeria’s rice needs. You can see how much of a gap. Nigeria consumes 7milllion tons of rice per annum, and we reproduce roundabout maybe 3.5 – 4million. 2.5 million gets smuggled, so you see that we still have a deficit because as a country, we like to plan based on electoral cycle –four years and eight years. Right now, the borders have been closed, a very good thing. The 2.5 million tons that are coming in don’t come in anymore. But they still find a way to come in somewhere but you know, nothing is full proof. As the president of NACCIMA, for me, it’s very important that we help secure our future, particularly in the food security sector. Food security is very important. People always talk about health. Yes, health and food go hand-in-hand. A wealthy nation is a healthy nation but a nation that feeds well as well, with the right nutrients will be a wealthy nation. Nigeria is the largest producer of cassava, Nigeria is the largest producer of cocoyam and yam, but you see the derivatives of it, though you produce a lot of it, a lot gets rotten at the source because it doesn’t come to market, access to markets and processing facilities for it is a problem. And again, the yields we have on agricultural products are very low, and that’s because of our agricultural practices. Our agricultural practices are still very hoe and cutlass, instead of making AgriBusiness mechanized. We need to stop having only rain-fed agriculture. We need to have irrigation. Nigeria’s land mass for agriculture is 4million hectares, of which less than one-third is cultivated. We have 14 to 15 million farming families. But again, in spite of all that, we even forget the fact that Nigeria is not self-sufficient in rice, because rice is a political crop. Talking about self-sufficiency, Nigeria has a long way to go in some areas. What we need to do is to have what you call strategic grain reserves. Nigeria doesn’t have strategic reserves for anything. You remember in the 70s we used to have groundnut pyramids, where are they today? Trust me, as a nation; we can do a lot better. The daunting challenges of the border closure The border issue is two pronged. It was a decision that had to be taken. Beef is smuggled, poultry products are smuggled, everything is smuggled through that border. Look at Benin Republic, palm oil and rice gets imported from Benin Republic through Thailand and gets into our borders, 2.5million tons of it comes in at night. They go and start selling it and before you know it, no tax is paid. And you ask yourself why? So for me, it’s something that is right. Something that should be done, something that the political will worked for. I’m one of those people who believe that you don’t put the cart before the horse. Nigeria always talks about having rice mills, why do you want to have a rice mill when you don’t have a rice farm? The rice departing from the farms is what goes into the mill. So tell me why you should be putting the cart before the horse? Nevertheless, we do our own bit. Olam rice has a rice farm which is almost 14,000 hectares; we have a rice mill which has capacity in Kano and in Lagos. So, we do our own bit. Thanks to our use of latest technologies, we are able to do well. The challenges are also there. It takes seven days for my container to leave my office in Iganmu to the port. That same seven days, it takes a ship to leave the port and get to its destination meanwhile, my own export has not even started because leaving Iganmu to Nigerian port is a never ending journey. I mean, if you say you’re supposed to deliver something to us in 30 days, and it’s taking 90days and sometimes even more, and you’re still telling us that you’re not sure it will arrive, there is a problem. These are the kinds of problems we face every day. Those borders are closed again, not only because of food, there was a proliferation of small arms coming in that was endangering our security. That is in addition. The national security adviser alluded to that, so people should listen to what he said. Actually, it was the national security adviser that advised that the borders should be closed because for them, security is very important. I’m not one of those who believe that we should subsidize consumption. I believe we should subsidize production but Nigerians seem to always like to subsidize consumption. So the rich always get richer, what happens to the poor?  For me, I’m for the border closure. Ascending to the ‘5th floor’ Being on the fifth floor is ascension to thinking about life from a different perspective. When I was 20 or 30, we were saying life begins at 40 and all those things. Life is evolutionary. I’m on the fifth floor now, I’m 50. I don’t really physically feel too different because you know what? I don’t suffer any major ailment but at the same time, I’m not too much of a deliberate person either, I just live and let live. So I enjoy myself. But I do everything within the limits and confines of decorum. What is the greatest lesson life has taught you? Life has taught me to be humble, and not to take anything for granted. For me, I just say to myself, ‘I’m lucky’. But again, luck comes with a bit of a dint of hard work and I’m very lucky to have goodwill. My goodwill-bank is immeasurable. I’m very selfless. Being selfless doesn’t take me anything. How do you relax or have time for family despite the busy schedules? I’ve been married for 17 years and still counting. I’ve been blessed with three kids –two boys, and a girl. My wife and I, (religiously), we go and watch movies on Fridays. I love to go to watch movies with my wife, then we go disco dancing. My wife likes to dance; she’s very eclectic like me. What has 17 years of marriage taught you? 17 years of marriage has taught me patience, benevolence, selflessness, sacrifice. It has also taught me to be mature, to be calm, and to be very understanding. I’m one of those people who believe that you must listen to understand, and I don’t react to everything the opposite sex says. There is something that I have and I thank God for it. On an anger-register scale, I’d probably have 2/10. I’m hardly angry. I smile every day. If you look at all my pictures, I’m constantly smiling. So I’m sure that probably when I die, I’ll be smiling. So, whether God will take me in that manner, I don’t know, because for me, life is just easy. I don’t take life too seriously.