Telecommunication Company, MTN Nigeria, has concluded its lineup for 2019 ‘Pulse Campus Invasion’, an initiative geared towards developing Nigerian students for the business world leveraging entertainment. MTN concluded this year’s campus Pulse Invasion following five days of excitement and fun at the University of Benin (Uniben) Campus in Benin, Edo State. Rahul De, the chief marketing officer, MTN Nigeria said, “We have found a way to reach millions of young Nigerians in their language with the Pulse offering as well as with the Pulse Invasion series. As with previous years, we aimed to infuse entertainment and entrepreneurship into a holistic experience for the students during the invasion. “Understanding that we have contributed to hundreds of students acknowledging the value of their talents and understanding the importance of dedication while finding ingenious ways to transform their passion into profit is humbling for us as a company. We actively believe working in partnership with our expert and celebrity partners, we can ensure that we are good together,” he stated. The invasion kicked off with games, quizzes and other thrilling activities at the sales village located in the basement car park of Uniben. Two days after, students were treated to motivational speeches by some of Nigeria’s accomplished entrepreneurs, including award-winning photographer and publisher, Style Mania Magazine, Kelechi Amadi-Obi; life coach and managing consultant, EdgeEcution, Steve Harris and mental health awareness advocate and graphologist, Oladipupo Macjob. The speakers shared thought-provoking insights into their careers and the necessities for success in life and business. Nigerian music stars, multiple award-winning DJ and music producer, Sodamola Oluseye ‘DJ Spinall’ Desmond, and hype man, Kunle ‘Shody’ Oshodi-Glover, thrilled the students with scintillating performances at the Hall 2 Car park. The experience was sealed with an enlightening customer forum that allowed students and customers to share their concerns and user experience on the MTN network for feedback by officials of the telecom company.  SEYI JOHN SALAU