Unwind with Okadabooks this weekend. Troubled Horizon and Other Stories by Ann Esievoadje This is a collection of five intriguing stories about kidnapping, fear of loss, accidental death and a twist of fate. Leap into the world of the unique characters in each story and discover if there is really ‘Jollof at the end of every reception.’ Ann Esievoadje who has been described as a visionary writer is also a prolific fiction author and an amazing inspirational writer. Her other works include The Quilt (a collection of fiction stories available here on Okadabooks), Being Mummy and Me (non-fiction) and Parents and Children (non-fiction). Read Now The Girl Gang: A Purpose Pathfinder For Ladies by Abimbola Agboola Meet Ife, a career-driven single lady. After a series of heartbreaks from men, she finally discovers the reason for her existence. Just about then, love finds her when she least expects. Who’s a girl without her support system? With her best friends Pamela (the recently engaged fashionista) and Tarila (the sit-at-home mom), Ife finally stood up for a cause that would infiltrate her generation. Her purpose.  This book is a treat for imagination, tackling self-awareness, financial caution, friendship, feminine uniqueness, preparing for marriage and conflict resolution in relationships. With each chapter comes hand-holding exercises to guide readers towards fulfilling their purpose in life. Read Now The Naive Wife by Ufuomaee On the day of her sister’s marriage introduction, radio show host, Rachel Eden, meets Ejike and Doug; two friends that could not be more different. She finds herself instantly attracted to Ejike, but there’s something about Doug and the way he’s determined to win her heart. Neither men are who they appear to be, however, making Rachel’s choice harder. Her producer and friend, Dongjap, also makes his intentions known, but could he be a little too late? Rachel’s Choice is a story of many singles, seeking to know the will of God for their relationships and who need, beyond wisdom, grace to make the right choice for their lives. It is the first volume of a three-book fictional series about love and marriage.  Get it at the Christmas Special price of N600 all December! Read Now          