The leadership of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Edo State chapter on Monday urged the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole to reciprocate the kind support the state Governor, Godwin Obaseki gave him during his eight years government in the state. Recall that Adams Oshiomhole was the governor of Edo State between November 12, 2008 and November 12, 2016. The CAN leadership made the appeal at a press conference in Benin City. The state chairman of the association, Oyonude Kure, who addressed the press conference noted that Governor Obaseki supported Oshiomhole during his eight years as governor of the State. “We appeal to you your excellency Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to let this matter amicably come to an end in the interest of peace of the state. “Your love for the Edo people and the brotherly love that will forever remain unbridled between you and your brother, governor Godwin Obaseki after the game of politics is over. “We therefore enjoin Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to support the seating governor as he also supported his administration for eight years by putting his party machinery together to the best of his ability within the limit of the law to bring the house (APC, Edo State) together for its unity in the interest of the peace of the state and in the interest of his party. Read also: Kogi West Supplementary: Oshiomhole congratulates Adeyemi “To ensure continuity of the administration of Godwin Obaseki in the art of governance of Edo state as he the Comrade Governor had in his tenure for the purpose of the development, advancement of the state, more particularly for the uncommon impact that the Godwin Obaseki’s administration has made in the state developmentally and in every ramification within the very short time of his administration, which the Edo people are very well pleased with and reposed their confidence in him for a second term in office”, he said. Kure, who said Governor Obaseki was the candidate of Adams Oshiomhole during the governorship primary and in the election in 2016, however urged the national chairman of the party not to allow few individuals soil the good name and legacy he has enshrined on the chronicles of achievers and builders of Edo land. He said the press conference was geared towards bringing to the public the reports of the body’s mediation in the face-off between the national chairman of the party and the state governor, Godwin Obaseki. He explained that in the course of the mediation, they found out that the main issue that led to the face-off has to do with the opening of the Edo Specialist Hospital, constitution of dissolved boards and parastatals, politics of exclusion, award of contracts to “foreigners”. Other issues are the inauguration of Edo State House of Assembly, attack on the APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole in Benin, attack on governor, Godwin Obaseki, Oba of Lagos and Chancellor of Edo University, Iyamho and severance allowance of the immediate past deputy governor, Pius Odubu.
While condemning any form of attack against the duo, he however enjoined parties to consciously guide and watch against future reoccurrence ensuring that perpetuators are brought to justice.
He however, urged governor Godwin Obaseki not to relent in his effort towards the good governance of the state and to pursue government of inclusion by resolving the issue with aggrieved party members within the ambit of the rule of law so as to join forces together to ensure continuity in the art of governance of the state.