The Swiss watch manufacturer Mauron Musy is launching its presence in the Nigerian market. During the event, and in the presence of one of the brand founders Christophe Musy, the Swiss Maison will unveil its Armure Mμ 03, an exclusive watch range developed with the finest watch lovers in mind. The Armure Mμ 03 is equipped with the patented nO-Ring® technology that protects its movement from the elements like no other watch can do. It is also the first watch to be labelled with the new “Swiss Crafted” appellation designed to identify watches that are 100% made in Switzerland. Today, at the Miliki private club in Lagos, representatives of the Swiss watch manufacturer Mauron Musy, including one of the founders and co-name bearer Christophe Musy, together with managers of Syndexis Sàrl, the company that represents the brand in Nigeria and supported by the events’ co-hosts Coscharis and Rolls Royce Motors have hosted an event to unveil the new Mauron Musy Armure Mμ03 range composed of exclusive Titanium, black DLC Titanium and Rose Hard Gold watches. The event also marks the debut of the Mauron Musy Maison in Nigeria, a country that is poised to become one of the key country’s in the watchmaker’s strategy. “We see Nigeria as a key market for the Mauron Musy brand in the years to come, Christophe Musy said, as we know the watch lovers in the country do know how to recognise quality craftmanship”. nO-Ring® – no service!
The engineering technology behind the Armure Mμ03 range of watches and their MM01 Calibre finds some of its roots in the oil industry: thenO-Ring® technology a mechanical gasket-free water-tightness system. Inspired by the mechanical principle of the clamp braces, the Mauron Musy engineers, driven by Christophe Musy himself, have developed the world’s only mechanical gasket-free water-tightness system watch, completely free of the costly maintenance associated with the ageing of the polymer gaskets present in all other watches. As it stands, Mauron Musy’s entirely in-house made case represents an authentic watch exterior complication in its own right. In-house caliber: MM01 The in-house mechanical self-winding movement of this 2019 model is endowed with an optimal 55-hour power reserve. “At one point, says Christophe Musy, it appeared to us that we needed to ensure we were in control of our watches’ movement. I therefore started designing our own movement”. This became the exclusive Calibre MM01, developed in collaboration with the Manufacture La Joux-Perret. Driving the hours, minutes, small seconds and date functions, it features a unique high-end decoration: for the first time at Mauron Musy, the bridges and oscillating weight have been hollowed out and microblasted in the centre, satin or sunburst-finished around the rim, in order to highlight the various inscriptions appearing in relief. Also featured on the case-back, this extremely sophisticated finish endows the model with a resolutely industrial character. Introducing the Swiss Crafted appellation On the front side, the in-house dial features a sandwich structure composed of two superposed metal plates. The upper part features a finely microblasted surface finish and a curved snailed pattern in the centre and on the small seconds counter. In the same spirit as the movement bridges, the hour-markers and cartouches on the lower dial are machined using the champlevé technique, highlighting the polished script appearing in relief. As for the case, its angles have been softened and its surfaces satin-brushed. The Armure Mμ03 is delivered with two rubber and leather straps featuring a tool-free change system.
“For me, only the best components should be part of the watches that our company makes, says Christophe Musy, founder of the Maison, and to be sure they are the best components, I need to ensure I know every manufacturer personally”. Consequently, very strictly and in order to ensure the best manufacturing quality possible, all of the Mauron Musy Armure Mμ03 components are made in Switzerland. This sets the watches apart from other brands that integrate foreign-made components in their watches, a practice that is accepted under the already very strict “Swiss Made” rules. To recognise their efforts, the Mauron Musy Maison developed a new appellation, “Swiss Crafted”, used only timepieces that were 100% manufactured in Switzerland. Being Swiss Robust, sporty, and sleek, yet refined, intriguing and sophisticated: the new Armure Mμ03 is a world of its own. Equipped with the nO-Ring® mechanical direct-seal gasket-free water-tightness technology, the latest addition to Mauron Musy is not only water-resistant to 300m but also splash-proof and easy to handle underwater. An avant-garde partner ideal for all settings, including the most hostile environments. Entirely attired in anti-allergenic titanium, immediately recognizable by its industrial design and brushed finishes, it is just as well teamed with adventurers’ gear as with an evening outfit. This intrinsically noble model houses an exclusive Manufacture movement. The Armure Mμ03 is undoubtedly the first watch with a maintenance-free five-year guarantee.
At the heart of the Mauron Musy Maison lies an essential concept: “Being Swiss”. This simple gesture, putting your watch on your wrist, takes a new dimension when your watch is a Mauron Musy: it makes you Swiss. There is indeed so much of Switzerland in the Mauron Musy watches that wearing one is a way of Being Swiss. Time to try a Mauron Musy Armure Mμ03? Founded in 2013 in the Broye valley, in the heart of the Three Lakes region at the foot of the Swiss Jura, the Mauron Musy brand was born from the passion of two men: Eric Mauron and Christophe Musy. Driven by the same determination, the two experts in precision mechanics took many months to develop and ensure the reliability of the patented nO-Ring® technology, a real breakthrough innovation that guarantees a perfect gasket-free seal. These pioneers of the watchmaking industry thus set their own course, outside the traditional circuits, driven by constant concern to offer “Swiss Crafted” products, an appellation certifying that 100% of the watch was designed and produced and in Switzerland. Much more than a label, “Swiss Crafted” corresponds to an industrial manifesto defended by Mauron Musy. Syndexis is a boutique brand representation and consulting company with a strong focus on African markets. The company, in partnership with its counterpart in Nigeria, is committed to deliver quality products and services to African markets in general and to Nigeria in particular. For more information on MauronMusy and Syndexis, please contact Nnamdi (08162808545).