The Labour Party (LP) has kicked against the hate speech and social media bills, saying that the bills were ridiculous and a setback on the nation’s democracy if passed into law. Recall that the controversial bill for the establishment of Hate Speech Commission Bill was read the first time at plenary in Senate, November 12. Sponsored by the Deputy Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Sabi Abdullahi, APC, Niger North, while that the Bill for an Act to Make Provisions for the Protection from Internet Falsehood and Manipulation had passed second reading in the Senate sponsored by Senator Sani Musa, APC-Niger East. However, speaking in an interview with BusinessDay, Wednesday, Mike Omotosho, national chairman of the Labour Party, advised the Muhammadu Buhari administration to rather concentrate its effort on fulfilling its campaign promises to Nigerians and alleviate the excruciating poverty level in the country. “I think it is a little laughable. Even though hate speech is abominable, having a death sentence for it is equally laughable. “To me, what is important now is for the government to strive and fulfil its campaign promises to Nigerians and eliminate hunger and poverty to the barest minimum in the country,” Omotosho said. Omotosho charged the National Assembly to focus on making laws that impact on the lives of Nigerians, stressing that such bill was not in the interest of the country at this point. The national chairman further urged the current administration to rather concentrate effort on re-orientating Nigerians on the dangers of hate speech rather than promulgating such laws. “But I canvases for a reorientation as a nation, discipline as an individual. We should respect each other’s religion and dignity. The National Assembly members need to refocus their attention on making laws that would impact on Nigerians. “We would appreciate why we are together as country. Imagine your family member involved in hate speech, would you suggest that they should be beheaded? Rather, you would look for ways in which everyone would leave in harmony in the country,” he said. When asked on the zoning of the 2023 presidency to the Southwest, Omotosho said zoning was not constitutional, but urged Nigerians not to be bothered about insinuations about 2023 presidency because it was still early. “That is just beer parlour talk, I am not bothered by zoning; it is not written in the constitution that there must be rotational presidency in the country. But at the same time there is rule of law must prevail. “People understand what needs to be done automatically. So, I don’t think those are issues we should bother ourselves with, because they are just rumour because at the right time things would unfold and we would know where,” he added.