It was a night of glitz and glamour as Moët and Chandon launched the festive season by hosting Nollywood stars and top celebrities in the second instalment of the Secret Location party in Lagos. This edition was themed La Vie en Rose with Nectar Imperial Rose as the star of the party. Notable celebrities such as; Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde, Ireti Doyle, Shaffy Bello, Vector, Waje, Abimbola Craig, Beverly Naya, Denola Grey, Deyemi Okanlawon and many more were invited to bask in the luxuries of the day. With delicious rose gold glazed doughnuts from Krispy Kreme, an avant-grand Moët & Chandon Champagne wall – the first of its kind in Lagos, which allowed guests to be served Nectar Imperial Rose from behind a screen. The glamorous decor transformed the secret location – Shiro, into a vision of pink roses and rose gold trimmings. Elizabeth Oputa, brand manager Champagnes, Moët Hennessy Nigeria observes that Moët and Chandon is and has been the champagne of celebrations for almost three centuries and La Vie en Rosé will further showcase our ‘saviour-fete’ (know-how to party). La Vie en Rosé, which literally means, “the Life in Pink.” was filled with world-class dining, opulent dress and several grand Moet moments. Guests were treated to the Moet Nectar Imperial  Rosé a style distinguished by its bright fruitiness, seductive palate and elegant maturity reflecting the diversity of the House and complementarity of the three grape varietals – the structure of Pinot Noir, the fleshiness of Pinot Meunier and the freshness of Chardonnay. Oputa further noted that the secret location party, La Vie en Rose, told the world that Moet & Chandon is the only choice when it comes to moments worth celebrating. Founded in 1743, Moët & Chandon contributed to introduce champagne to the world by offering a range of unique wines for every occasion. From iconic Moët Impérial to the Grand Vintage Collection, from the extroverted Moët Rosé Impérial to the innovative Moët Ice Impérial, each champagne dazzles and delights with bright fruitiness, an enticing palate and an elegant maturity. Moët & Chandon celebrates the thrill of living. With a bottle of its champagne opened every second around the globe, Moët & Chandon knows that every second is an experience, and every experience is a #moetmoment to live now.