Governor Seyi Makinde has announced the appointment of Olufunmilayo Salami and a Kano State indigene, Ahmed Murtala as special adviser Health and special assistant Community Relations I, Arewa Community, respectively. The governor also approved the appointment of  Jacob Adetoro as chairman, Federal Constituencies Liaison Officers, while naming 14 Constituency Liaison Officers, representing each of the state’s 14 Federal Constituencies. A statement signed by the Special Assistant (Print Media) to Makinde, Moses Alao, indicated that the governor also approved the appointments of Femi Josiah as Special Assistant on Community Relations II for other communities. The governor charged the new appointees, whose appointments took effect from November 27, to see their appointments as a call to service, charging them to discharge their duties with absolute loyalty, dedication and diligence. Salami, a medical doctor, who until her appointment as Special Adviser on Health to Governor Makinde, was a Consultant to the Government on Health, is a United States of America-based Pediatric Emergency Medicine Physician. The new Special Assistant on Community Relations for the Arewa Community, Murtala, hailed from Nasarawa Local Government of Kano State and had his primary and secondary school education at St. Brigid Boys School, Mokola, Ibadan and Community Grammar School, Mokola, Ibadan, respectively. He will serve as the bridge between the Oyo State Government and the Hausa/Fulani community as well as other Northern groups scattered across the state. Governor Makinde had, at a recent forum, while receiving a contingent of the Niger State Youths, which were in Ibadan to present him with a white horse and an award in recognition of his excellent service delivery in the first six months in office, promised to appoint a Special Assistant from the Hausa/Fulani community to serve as the link between the government and the community, especially in the face of farmer-herdsmen crisis. The appointments were communicated through letters signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Olubamiwo Adeosun. The 14 Liaison Officers appointed by the Governor were: Ajibike Osuolale Lateef (Iseyin, Itesiwaju, Kajola and Iwajowa); Salami Lukman Adisa (Saki East, Saki West and Atisbo); Afees Tijani (Orelope, Irepo and Olorunsogo); Ganiyu Laaro (Oriire, Ogbomoso North and Ogbomoso South); Sanjo Akintola (Ogo-Oluwa and Surulere) Wale Ogunmola (Afijio, Oyo West, Oyo East and Atiba); Monsuru Oduola (Ibarapa North and Ibarapa Central). Others were: Julian Nwachukwu (Ibadan North); Olumide Akinlade (Oluyole); Kafilat Olayiwola (Ido and Ibarapa East); Labule Ishola (Ibadan South-West &North-West); Yahaya Akinbile (Ibadan South-East and North-East); Wulemot Ibitoye (Akinyele/Lagelu) and  Adegboyega Akinlolu James (Ona-Ara and Egbeda