President Muhammadu Buhari has on the backdrop of accusations of human rights abuses and disregard for the rule of law by his administration, declared that he is presiding over the country with a clear conscience. The President made the remarks when he received Letters of Credence from United States of America Ambassador to Nigeria, Mary Beth Leonard, at the presidential villa, Abuja, said the listing of Nigeria for human rights concerns created an impression that some people were being unfairly treated or marginalized in the country. In a statement Presidential Spokesman, Garba Shehu, quoted Buhari as saying: “I know that those with access have created an impression of being marginalized. “I sit here with a clear conscience. I took an oath and I am honouring the office.” The United State authorities had in reaction to human rights violations in Nigeria, placed the country on a Special Watch List for tolerating “severe violations of religious freedom.” Obviously disturbed by the development, Buhari used the meeting to appeal to the United States of America to ensure that its sources of information on Nigeria cut across all sectors as some people might provide misleading and manipulative narratives for self-serving purposes, ignoring the larger picture of a united country. The President said the listing of Nigeria for human rights concerns created an impression that some people were being unfairly treated or marginalized in the country. President Buhari said he took some time to explain the situation in the country when he met with President Donald Trump in Washington DC as the American President expressed concern with reports of attacks on segments of the society. “It is not an easy task to work for the unity of the country, and I am doing my best. During your stay in the country I am asking you to ensure that your sources of strategic information cut across,’’ he added. The President urged the envoy to use the opportunity of her posting to Nigeria, with her experience, knowledge, and energy to get the facts on the country. In her remarks, the United States Ambassador said Nigeria was listed on a watch list to deepen the conversation on the humanitarian situation in the country, accepting that some people could “flare the flames and crystalize issues’’ that could affect peaceful-coexistence. “There are people who make things less attractive than they seem,’’ she said, noting that the report will deepen conversation of the situation in the country, especially with religious leaders and mediators. “I want to assure that the United States recognizes and celebrates the integration in Nigeria.’’ She said the United States will always side with transparent processes. The Ambassador said Nigerians and America have a lot in common in terms of “being big among neighbours, enthusiastic and entrepreneurial”. Leonard assured President Buhari of support from the United States, especially on the humanitarian challenges, while appreciating the willingness to always share useful information and intelligence with her country. “I feel it’s a privilege and great honour to be here; coming to see the giant of Africa. I have worked for 30 decades before coming to Nigeria. We will do a lot together for peace, security and delivering humanitarian assistance,’’ she added. President Buhari also received Letters of Credence from the High Commissioner of Sri Lanka to Nigeria, Ahamed Lebbe Sabarullah Khan. The President appreciated the country for supporting Nigeria to provide the President of the United Nations General Assembly.
In his remarks, the High Commissioner said: “Our countries face similar challenges and we will support each other.’’ He said Sri Lanka will also strengthen bilateral relations with Nigeria on trade and investments.