Absence of improved cassava variety in Nigeria offers Flour Mills Nigeria a lucrative gap to take advantage of the country’s fertile land to venture into large scale cassava farming. Governor Abdullahi Sule stated this when he led a high powered team to the headquarters of Flour Mills Nigeria in Lagos to showcase the economic potentials of Nasarawa State in value chain development of cassava. He, however, expressed gratitude to Flour Mills for showing genuine interest in Nasarawa State to invest through the robust prevailing enabling environment provided the state government. Sule said the state government under his watch would reposition the Agricultural sector as a key competitive sector in Nasarawa State to realise this Governor Sule reaffirms that “Nasarawa State provides the most suitable fertile land and geographic advantage in terms of access to markets for Flour Mills Nigeria, should the company accept to venture into large scale Cassava farming in the state”. The governor further that “the absence of improved cassava variety in Nigeria offers Flour Mills a lucrative gap to take advantage of of the fertile land in the country to go into Cassava farming and that under my stewardship, Agriculture will be repositioned as a key competitive sector in Nasarawa State.” “Now is the time for Flour Mills Nigeria to take opportunity of the highest level of political will already in place to invest and expand its coast to the state.” The Group Managing Director of Flour Mills Nigeria, Paul Gbededo acknowledged that without doubt, “Nasarawa State means Business considering his proximity to the federal capital territory. “And the fact that Governor Abdullahi Sule clearly communicated the purpose of this meeting, even before arriving Lagos;  showed that the government in Nasarawa State was proactive and investor focused.” Gbededo lauded the business presentation of the State’s team led by Governor Sule, describing it as compelling and speaks to depth, hard-work and a brilliant acumen to attract investment at par with global standards. At the end of the meeting, it was resolved that Flour Mills Nigeria will invest in Agri-processing in Nasarawa State with investments in Cassava farming and Sugar plantation.