To curb all forms of corruption and corrupt practices in both public and private sectors, Governor Seyi Makinde has domesticated the long awaited anti corruption bill into law in Oyo State. Signing the bill into law amidst the state executive council as well as the speaker, Oyo State House of assembly who was represented by the majority leader of the House, Sanjo Ogundoyin, stated that the law is not in place to witch hunt anyone but aimed at protecting the state resources from those who see positions of power both in public and private sectors as opportunity to steal public funds for personal aggrandisement. The governor noted that there was nothing to be afraid of as far as the law is concerned, and that the state government is committed to guarding the scarce resources of the state up to the local government level just as it is committed to bringing good governance closer to the people at the grassroots.
According to Makinde, corruption, if not checked could kill the development and progress of any society, the anti-corruption law is neither to witch-hunt APC nor PDP members as it is a law meant to protect Oyo state. Reaffirming that he has not reneged on his earlier declaration to wave his immunity as the executive governor to face any charge that may be pressed against him if found culpable in any corrupt practice  said: “If am, as the governor is not above the law then no member of the state cabinet is above the law”. He cautioned members of his executives to avoid the temptation that may come as a result of the offices they occupy noting that temptation will always come but they must always ensure to live above board in order to maintain the integrity of the present administration. “There is nothing to be afraid of really. Why we have domesticated the anti-corruption law, just as we want governance to get closer to the grassroots, the same way we have to guard the resources of the state and local government up to grassroots level because corruption kills the society. When money meant projects, money meant for salaries, money meant for certain developmental initiatives are diverted then, we miss the opportunity. “So, we believe that we have to tackle corruption, and I said it during my inaugural address as the executive governor of Oyo State that I will be ready to wave my immunity to face any corruption charges against my person and I still maintain that position. “This is not a law to witch hunt anyone, it is not about politics or political interest, it is not about APC or PDP, it is about our state, Oyo State.”