All over the world, businesses fold up more frequently than can be imagined, and global technology company, Hitachi Vantara, says this can be largely attributed to poor data management. Companies that properly harness and manage data will see longevity, as a proactive approach is needed to keep up with the constant advancements in technology taking place. Speaking at ‘Hitachi Insight Day’ in Lagos, Issam Hijazi, Hitachi Vantara’s Solution Engineer on Big Data and Internet of Things (IoT), said that digital transformation is a necessity for organisations if they want to compete in the global market. “Digital transformation has changed the way businesses interact with customers, using new technologies like block chain, machine learning, artificial intelligence, IoT, and all other trending solutions,” said Hijazi. He further noted that in a competitive market, data is a precious asset for organisations, and that those who have it and know how to use it will succeed. However, organisations who have data but are unable to utilise the necessary tools, experience, and patterns to achieve their purpose are powerless. Digital transformation is more about having all systems interconnected with one another. It is also about applying advanced machine learning to predict the future, customers’ behaviour and maintenance, without losing money or revenue. Hijazi added: “they say data is the new oil, but I think it’s much more than that. Oil, is a chemical substance that if once used, holds no value; it depreciates. But data is something that can be used repeatedly, without depreciating.” According to Hijazi, in order to manage data effectively, organisations can leverage Hitachi Vantara’s solution, PENTAHO, as it gives end-users an end-to-end consistent experience. “PENTAHO will enable businesses by driving their systems without organisations having to rely heavily on its skilled IT individuals. It will also ease the life of data scientists when they want to collect data and prepare it more efficiently,” he commented. Also speaking at the event was Akinwale Awosokanre, Hitachi Vantara’s regional managing director for West Africa, who stated it is important to make better use of data if a company wants to increase its revenue. “From Hitachi Vantara’s point of view, we have a keen interest in how customers manage their data, activate it, and make money from it. However, it goes beyond that, as a company with high ethical standards, we believe that customers should work with an original equipment manufacturer (OEM) that is able to add value to them, and at the same time, impact society,” Awosokanre added.  CALEB OJEWALE