Huawei has launched its most affordable mid-range device, the Y9 Prime 2019 into the Nigerian market. This new device which is targeted at the younger generation packs premium features and innovations including a new and improved display and revolutionary auto-pop-up front facing camera – a distinct upgrade from the Y9 2019 released about 8 months ago. For those who do not know yet, the Huawei trade ban has been lifted by the US President, Donald Trump. So, finally, Huawei is allowed to use the Android license from Google and that means the newly released Huawei Y9 prime and all its devices are supported by Google. Announced at a price of N83,900 the HUAWEI Y9 Prime 2019 is a very compelling product especially in today’s video-centric social media landscape and has been called the King of mid-range smartphone devices by tech analysts. Its main features include; The all new ultra FullView display Sized at a massive 6.59 inches with a resolution of 2340 x 1080 FHD+ and an aspect ratio of 19:5:9, the display is 91 percent pure screen estate, allowing users to enjoy a display like never before. The display is also capable of authentic and rich colors with a wide color gamut of 85 percent. Be it watching videos, browsing social media or any simple task, the HUAWEI Y9 Prime 2019 promises users with an immersive viewing experience without any interruptions. However, a display like this can result in extensive usage. The screen filters out harmful blue light emissions and intelligently adjusts color temperature and brightness to protect against eye strain. Additionally, when in low light situations, the screen brightness can also be brought down to 2 nits for a more comfortable viewing experience. Auto pop-up selfie camera While most phones use the bezels and notches to house the front camera and various other sensors, the HUAWEI Y9 Prime 2019 uses clever and innovative design to hide these sensors, but the front camera position is a sign of Huawei’s innovative technologies. Seemingly invisible, the front camera is tucked away and will only appear when needed. Once the camera is turned on and selfie mode is selected, the front camera will pop-up automatically out of the top of the phone. Additionally, it also includes an intelligent protective feature that detects free falls and automatically retracts the lens as much as possible. Housing a 16MP lens and supported by Huawei’s powerful AI, the auto pop-up selfie camera is capable of identifying up to eight scenarios for accurate scene and object recognition. The upgraded AI backlight imaging technology also fixes lighting concerns retaining stunning clarity and colors for stunning selfies. Additionally, users can also enjoy stunning studio effects in their selfies including 3D portrait lighting. Innovative triple camera setup on the back The HUAWEI Y9 Prime 2019 packs a 16MP + 8MP + 2MP triple-camera on the back. Both the 16MP primary and 8MP secondary sensors feature a 6P (six-lens plastic array) design that reproduces minute details within an image and captures more photons. As a result, the phone empowers users to recreate scenes in their full complexity, with enhanced image clarity, contrast, and overall quality. Powerful performance Under the hood, the HUAWEI Y9 Prime 2019 houses an Ultra Large 4000 mAh battery for extended periods of intensive use. The device uses a Type-C port, which is smaller, faster and reversible. Additionally, you can still find the 3.5mm headphone jack as well. The HUAWEI Y9 Prime 2019 runs Android 9.0 with the EMUI 9.0, which learns and analyzes user behavior which enables a more optimised user experience and has a 12.9 percent higher performance. The system is further optimised by F2Fs 2.0 (Flash-Friendly File System) and EROFS (Extendable Read-Only File System), which provides better memory management, improving performance and speed. In terms of storage, the HUAWEI Y9 Prime 2019 comes with 4GB RAM and 128GB ROM and an Expanded Memory up to 512GB. A futuristic gaming experience In order to provide a more enhanced gaming experience, the HUAWEI Y9 Prime 2019 utilizes artificial intelligence to identify gaming scenarios and match them with real-life sensations. Price and availability Pre-Order for the new device commenced July 15 on Junia, Pointek, Slot and 3CHUB. However, the smartphone which comes in three different colours, will be available in stores nationwide from July 22, 2019.   JUMOKE AKIYODE-LAWANSON