As part of measure to drastically reduce number of erring Nigerians that are on death row in Arabian countries over drug trafficking and other related offences, the National Drug Law and Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has warned Nigerians that intending pilgrims to Saudi Arabia for 2019 Hajj exercise to avoid trafficking illicit drugs to the holy land as such an offence attracts death penalty. Speaking in Abeokuta on Friday during a seminar for the intending Hajj pilgrims by the Ogun State Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board on the theme, “Drug Trafficking, Offences and Prohibited Items”, Ishaku Yusuf, NDLEA Commander, declared that whoever caught with illicit and narcotic drugs would face death penalty as Saudi Arabia Authority has not only outlawed such in their country but also penalises it with a death sentence. He also warned the Hajj pilgrims to avoid kolanut, bitter kola and other improvised hard drugs such as gum, tramadol and others, urging them to be extraordinarily vigilant at the airports and not to carry any other person’s luggage as this may put them in a mess. He said, “I wish to draw the attention of all intending pilgrims to the stiff penalty attached to Drug trafficking in Saudi Arabia, anyone caught, faces a death penalty. As an intending pilgrim, it is an offence for anybody to traffic or carry any drugs such as, marijuana, hashish, cocaine, heroin and other forms of illicit drugs from Nigeria to the holy land.” Meanwhile, Muslim Pilgrims in the state have been told to get prepared as July 19, 2019 will be the take off date for the first batch of the state’s pilgrims to the holy land of Mecca and Medinah in the Republic of Saudi Arabia. This was the statement of the Secretary of the Ogun State Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board, Abdul Hakeem Kalejaiye at the final workshop organized for the intending pilgrims in Abeokuta, saying the National Hajj Commission has fixed July 19, for Ogun state to airlift intending pilgrims to the holy land. “Please be aware that Ogun state pilgrims would be airlifted by July 19 if the date remains unchanged. The first batch will take off by Friday and by Sunday all intending pilgrims in Ogun state should be out of the county”. Kalejaye said.  RAZAQ AYINLA