Here’s a quick question, “for how long can you get the result you get, for how long can you afford the things you can now, or the lifestyle you live if you stopped doing what you currently do?” You can divide your effort for multiplied results. It’s possible to do more with less time. Anything less than that is hustle; too operationally working “in” your business than working “on” your business.  There’s a huge difference between hustling to get by, between even success, significance, achievement and truly building sustenance (structure/system). Anyone can succeed, as a one off. But to keep it going, there are steps to it. Achievement comes to someone when he is able to do great things for himself. Success comes when he empowers people to do great things with him. Significance comes when he develops people to do great things for him, but legacy, institutions and a system is created only when a person puts his organization into the position to do great things without him. An institution is a system designed to outlive the founder. And systems run on processes. A system is a set of processes that can run without you. As your business grows, you’ll need to build systems and processes that can be automated as much as possible. You’ll need to build distribution systems, investment systems, marketing systems, customer relationship and support systems, research and development systems, effectiveness and performance measurement and improvement systems, accounting and hiring systems, and many others. Systems are rules, policies, and procedures that on boarded and trained individuals can repeat as your company grows and run independent of you. A system is a set of processes that can run without you. A system in one word is interdependence. It is a set of independent units working to achieve a common goal. As your business grows, you’ll need to build systems and processes that can be automated as much as possible. You’ll need to build production, inventory, marketing sales and distribution systems for consistent supply. You’d need to brand, identify and know your market while keeping up with the times and competition through research and development systems. To manage revenue, expense and cash flow, you’d need to have an accounting system. In the middle of all of these comes people. This means that you’d have to have a human resource system with the functions of HR Planning and people management through selection and recruitment of the right people with the right roles. That is putting people in the right positions. If you don’t train them, you can’t blame them so there has to be a process for training and development. And you’d have to measure their performance through appraisals. That funnels into their compensations like salary, rewards, sanctions etc. It’s not out of context to bear risk in mind; identify, know and attempt to mitigate where it cannot be avoided. You’d need a set of templates for crisis management, you also need to keep your team in loop with it, to notify customers when your product is not working, to review the operations of your business, to gain and collect feedback on your product, to do expense planning and financial planning and pay for purchases; to pay salaries through payroll, to determine how happy your customers are; to implement a net promoter score for your customers, to handle vacation requests for your employees, to manage requests for proposals (RFPs); and so on. You’ll need systems for setting up your hardware, for providing tax documentation, legal contracts, and full 360 feedback to your employees, for communicating internally and externally. These are just a few examples of the hundreds or thousands of systems that will be running in complex, large organizations. In the startup or entrepreneurial phase, avoid bureaucracy, try to be light on formal systems. You just need to have the minimal necessary amount of efficient systems that run smoothly. As you grow, you can put in place more complex processes. During your first year in business, your success is really about what you personally do and the product you build. After the first year in business, your success is determined more by the people you hire than by you. After the first year, or even the first few months, stop trying to do everything. None of us is as smart as all of us. Delegate. Hire smart people and help them put systems in place so that things happen even when you’re not there. Let’s look at a few key things you must set in place on your way to building a system.    For most businesses, it’s not the lack of strategy that is the problem, but the inability to follow through. There just seems to be no structure for it. The truth is, business plans and operational documents like job descriptions, intended corporate culture, brand promises and Standard Operating Procedures, even when defined, written down and assigned might still not be followed through except there is a strong compliance mechanism. So you need a compliance system. Everyone’s work they say is nobody’s work, so someone (or a department depending on how big your organization is) has to be held responsible.  And then monitored through an external system I will refer to as the advisory board. The same way a marketer is placed on target, and may be fired when that target is not met, is the same way a compliance person has to be put on ground with a target to query, suspend and even fire anyone (from the bottom up, including you, even if you’re the CEO) if not met.  The compliance manager reserves the right to query and even suspend anyone in the firm, even if the person is above him/her in organizational hierarchy. In turn he reports only to the CEO and the board. And you don’t have to be a conglomerate to set it up. You can.  I hope this helps on how to create a structure and system that can work without you eventually. I look forward to working with you.  Eizu Uwaoma