It was a moment of joy and fulfillment for the Management and Staff of Global Appliances Nigeria Limited, the Manufacturers and distributors of Binatone Products in Nigeria as the company was formally presented with the Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme, (MANCAP) Certificate by the Standards Organization of Nigeria, SON last week. At a brief but impressive ceremony which took place in the company premises last weekend, The Managing Director of Global Appliances Nigeria Limited, (GANL) Prasun Banerjee received the certificate from the State Coordinator of SON Lagos State III Office, Amuwo Odofin area, Mr Omotosho Ayodele with a promise to ensure compliance with all rules and regulations as specified by the organization. “We have been working on getting this certification for about four or five years now. I am happy that we got it today. With this certificate, I am sure that our customers will have more confidence on our products, we will have the logo on all our products and we promise to comply with all the rules and regulations of production as specified by the Standards Organization of Nigeria” he said. The Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme (MANCAP) is a mandatory product certification scheme put in place by SON to ensure that all locally manufactured products in the country conform to the relevant Nigerian Industrial Standards (NIS) before such products are presented for sale in the market or exported. The scheme which is renowned and applauded by the industrial sector started in 2006. It is aimed at ensuring compliance of Made-in-Nigeria products to the minimum requirements of the Nigerian Industrial Standards (NIS) or Code of practice thereby promoting fair competition at both domestic and international markets, as well as safeguarding the safety and health of consumers in the overall interest of promoting economic and industrial development of Nigeria. Speaking earlier, Ayodele Omotosho congratulated GANL for getting certified, pointing out that the process for getting the certificate was not an easy one because it comes after compliance with all the rules and regulations as set out by SON. “We are usually not in a hurry to give this MANCAP Certificate to just any company if the company has not complied with requirements. It requires a lot of compliance with the rules and regulations. I am happy and I appreciate the fact that a renowned company like Binatone has fulfilled all requirements to get this certificate. I urge you to continue to comply with all regulations as the certificate is given to you on loan and can be withdrawn. We have had to lock up some companies before they complied with our regulations but I am happy that we did not have to force you to comply.” He stated.  David Ibidapo