Spotlight Africa, a non-profit organization set up to foster, advocate, empower and invest in the human capital of diverse groups and communities has said it is poised to reward the women with orange uniform who are working with Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) to keep the roads in Lagos clean. Scheduled to hold on Friday, July 26th 2019, the one day award ceremony will acknowledge over 150 selected women who have stood out in their day to day lives as sweepers and will be inspired, trained and rewarded. “In this 2019 edition of ‘’Women Making a Difference Community Service Leadership Awards’’, Spotlight Africa in partnership with LAWMA is recognising 150 diligent and devoted Lagos Female Street Sweepers including the street sweepers who have lost their lives on duty,” Nonye Nnaji, the President of Africa Spotlight said in a recent interview. She added, saying the need to recognise the street sweepers was as a result of the fact that “these women in their everyday work have exceeded all expectations and are worthy of our applause.” The Lagos-based NGO started its operations in Jos about 12 years ago. It championed various leadership programs for public and private high schools. Since 2017, it has continued to scale up its outreach and have recorded impactful results with over 30,000 Nigerians. “I want to say thank you to Spotlight Africa for identifying with the women sweeping our roads,” Ola Oresanya, MD of LAWMA said. The MD added saying that the non-governmental organisation is assisting them to do their job and as such he is open to “support Spotlight Africa.” According to the organisation, the objective of the event is to celebrate the women who are making a difference by keeping the highways and communities clean and to carefully put in place long lasting sustainability plans that will continue to guarantee their safety, growth and impact in the society. “For us as a company, we are deeply passionate about women. If you look around there is always a woman on the street selling Coca Cola and as such any initiative that impacts women, we are proud to always be part of it,” Amaka Onyemelukwe, Head of public affairs and Communication at Coca-Cola, one of the sponsors said during a press briefing. According to the President of the non-profit organisation, the award ceremony is an inspirational gathering; a joint initiative that awards, rewards, motivates and inspires women who through their mundane work have shown incredible dedication and excellent leadership. “Most of all, every morning on the streets of Lagos; they preach one message – dignity in labour,” Nnaji said. The sole aim of Spotlight Africa is to enhance the continent where every individual can live out to their fullest potential through a power network of varied human investment.  Endurance Okafor