Hybrid Energy System, an energy solution capable of reducing emission and save cost has been introduced into the Nigerian market. The Photo-Diesel Genset Hybrid System is a combination of renewable energy with traditional diesel generators. It reduces fuel consumption and lower operations cost while helping to reduce emission. The system consists of PV modules, diesel gensets, inverters and intelligent controllers. This combination ensures that the maximum amount of solar energy is fed into the system at any given time. It offers a flexible modular structure,that can be easily upgraded if load demand increases. According Rami Suleiman, BusinessDevelopment Manager, Jubaili Bros Nigeria Limited, the company marketing the product in the country, he says, by adding renewable solar energy to its core generating sets business, the company is committed to provide complete turn-key Power solutions in  Nigeria, Africa, Asia and Middle East. Jubaili Bros Engineering Limited he said utilises this Hybrid system at it factory in Oregun, Lagos, where all it Marapco diesel diesel gensets are manufactured for Nigeria.  “The hybrid system has not only reduced fuel cost but has also reduced the amount of CO2 emission by112 tons annually, substantially benefiting the environment”. He said to facilitate the introduction of the new hybrid the company is offering attractive financing options. The advantages of the system includes: hybrid delivering big savings in overall running cost in just few years, lower fuel consumption, therefore reducing operating costs, less reliance on fossil  energy  and therefore cleaner environment,lower maintenance costs among others. He said solar integration solution is for the future because it still needs a lot of time to be affordable by customers. To provide efficient service to customers and give full solution to end users, he said the Jubaili Bros has associated itself with major energy companies all over the world, saying that diesel/solar hybrid solution works hand in hand. The solution he said does not use battery as it gets its power from the sun during the day. It can live up to 25 years because it is a long lasting solution and can also be upgraded to higher consumption in future. The challenge for solar integration is funding because of higher interest rates which makes it uneconomical for most customers for now as it requires huge capital. He however stated that solar solution is still the best energy solution adding that with hybrid systems companies can reduced their diesel consumption by 70 per cent.  Olusola Bello