In a move to bring a dramatic improvement in security on the nation’s territorial waters and exclusive economic zone, President Muhammadu Buhari has given his assent to the Suppression of Piracy and other Maritime Offences Bill, 2019. The Presidential assent dated June 24, 2019 followed the passage of the bill by the Senate and House of Representatives on April 9, 2019 and April 30, 2019, respectively. With the bill becoming law, Nigeria has officially become the first country in the West and Central African Sub-Region to promulgate a separate law against piracy, an important international requirement set by the IMO as part of measures to guarantee secure global shipping. The bill passed by the eighth National Assembly gives effect to the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), 1982, and the International Convention on the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Navigation (SUA), 1988, and its Protocols. Recall that the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) had facilitated the drafting of the Bill in 2012, in collaboration with the International Maritime Organisation (IMO). This was in a bid to give further credence to the relevant international treaties of the United Nations (UN) and IMO ratified by Nigeria on maritime safety and security and provide a much-needed legal and institutional framework for the country – through its maritime security enforcement agencies: the Nigerian Navy and NIMASA – to ensure safe and secure shipping on Nigerian waters, and prosecute infractions. Dakuku Peterside, director-general of NIMASA, described the move as a step in the right direction, saying, “It marks the dawn of a great moment for world maritime.” “We are determined to continue to deliver on our promise to investors and the international community to ensure an increasingly safer and more secure environment for profitable maritime business. The new law at this very critical stage of our Blue Economy drive is certainly an elixir that will boost our capacity to harness the rich potential of our seas and oceans,” he said. Some of the significant provisions of the Act include a distinct definition of piracy and other maritime offences/unlawful acts; punishment upon conviction for maritime crimes; restitution to owners of violated maritime assets or forfeiture of proceeds of maritime crime to the Federal Government; and establishment of a Piracy and Maritime Offences Fund with prescribed sources of funding that will be utilised in the implementation of the Act.  AMAKA ANAGOR-EWUZIE