As the November 16, 2019 Kogi governorship election draws nearer, the immediate past Chairman, Senate Committee on the FCT, Dino Melaye as well as Aminu Suleiman, have picked their governorship nomination and expression of interest forms. The duo picked their forms Thursday in Abuja at the People’s Democratic Party’s national secretariat, insisting that Kogi State was in dire need of good leadership. Explaining why he is in the race, Melaye said that the ambition is not his, but that of the people of Kogi State. According to him, there was a dire need to recover the state which had been completely battered, shattered and destroyed. He lamented that “today, the magnitude and intensity of killings in Kogi State surpass any other time in the history of our state,” he said, noting that the level of insecurity in the state had never been experienced. “Unemployment is on the high side. Retrenchment, sack and non-payment of salaries and pension is now a tradition in Kog State. The economy and the economic activities in Kogi State have completely depleted”. “We have three agenda, and that will be the people. Government and democracy will be established. What we have in Kogi State is not democracy. What we have is ‘greedocracy,’ government of the greedy by the greedy and for the greedy. But by the grace of God, we will graduate back to democracy. What we have today is feudocracy. Government of the few, by the few and for the few. But we are coming to make sure that government belongs to the people”. Also speaking to journalists after picking his forms, Suleiman said, “The state is in need of change of good leadership having under gone in the last three and half years state of deterioration in all sectors, government employees virtually they are like beggars, insecurity in the state, infrastructures have deteriorated and many more among others”. He assured that he would do everything possible to improve on infrastructure, empowerment so as to reduce the increasing rate of unemployment.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja