It rained goals at the Nile Phoenix stadium, Abuja as FUT Minna Transformers trashed Nile Rovers 5-1 in the opening Group F game of the 2019 Higher Institution Football League (HiFL) season. Ibrahim Suleiman, Jersey number 20 opened scoring for the transformers in the 3rd minute, but Abubakar Usman, jersey number 8 scored a brilliant equalizer to put the rovers back in the game. However, FUT Minna transformers dominated the game and exerted unbearable pressure on the hosts and in no distant time Ndah Noble Jersey Number 17 got a brace for the transformers in the 16th and 26th minutes respectively, while Nile Rovers, Umar Usman, bowed to the attacking pressure of the transformers, gifting them an own goal unfortunately in the 32nd minute. Amachi Shammar, jersey number 11 closed out the game beautifully for the transformers, scoring in the 70th minute to secure a comfortable 5-1 victory for the transformers. Elsewhere in the University of Ibadan, LASU BLAZERS, came back from a goal down to defeat Lead CITY Gladiators 2-1. Adegbite Abiodun put the lads from LEAD CITY ahead in the 24th minute from the penalty spot, however LASU Blazers equalized and secured a winning goal courtesy of Sulaiman and Zacchaeus in the 32nd and 54th minute. In the second game of group B, Hosts University of Ibadan Pioneers were held to a 0ne all draw by Afe Babalola University, ABUAD Stars, goals from ABUAD Star, Iklaki Stephen and Oladele Abiola of UI Pioneers ensured that both team shared spoils The league is organised by Pace Sports and Entertainment Marketing in partnership with the Nigerian Universities Games Association (NUGA). The top 32 Universities from NUGA-member institutions will play over a period of 21 weeks, with the final four billed for the Agege Stadium, Lagos. The league is proudly sponsored by Stanbic IBTC, Premier Cool and Indomie Nigeria. For more information and specific match fixtures you can check the HiFL® website and get updates of the games live via the Twitter handle of the various teams and HiFL pages.