Vertiv, provider of equipment and services for data centres and 21st Century Technologies Limited, a multidisciplinary telecommunications service provider are exploring possible partnership opportunities to roll out more data centres in Nigeria, BusinessDay learnt. A data center is a repository that houses computing facilities like servers, routers, switches and firewalls, as well as supporting components like backup equipment, fire suppression facilities. It traditionally refers to server hardware on premise to store and access data. The business leadership team of Vertiv, including Noureddine Aouda; regional director, North West Africa, Pierre Havenga; managing director, Middle East and Africa and Gbenga Adebowale; country sales manager Nigeria recently paid a visit 21st Century Technologies to discuss data centre opportunities, as the company already offers a complete suite of fully managed hosting services from its own data centres in Lagos, Nigeria, providing an array of strategic, financial, and operational benefits. Wale Ajisebutu, chairman/CEO, 21st Century Technologies Limited, received the team and conducted them round the company’s state-of-the-art ICT complex. Industry analysts have welcomed this proposed partnership as stakeholders’ clamor for more data centres across the country to host more telcos, carrier providers and internet solution providers (ISPs) and government continue to push for the hosting of data in country. Only recently, 21st Century Technologies obtained a Tier IV certification from Uptime Institute, the first time for any telecommunications company in Africa. Uptime Institute provides standards globally for the design, construction and operations of data centres in the IT industry. Also with the certification, the company has become the most certified ICT firm in the country.
With its data centre tier standard and certifications, management and operations reviews, efficient IT stamp of approval, and accredited educational curriculum for data centre. Uptime Institute helps organisations optimise critical IT assets while managing costs, resources and efficiency. By this certification, 21st Century Technologies’ data centre cannot go down for more than 23 minutes in a year. Vertiv, the American, Ohio-based, provider of equipment and services for datacenters, brings together hardware, software, analytics and ongoing services to ensure its customers’ vital applications run continuously, perform optimally and grow with their business needs.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson