 Conscious of the need to address the challenges of insecurity, poverty, and unemployment, President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday told his supporters that he would require a formidable team of experts to help deliver his Next Level promises to Nigerians. President Buhari, while meeting with his supporters, the Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) and the Buhari Support Group led by its chairmen, Omoniyi Akinsiju, Umaru Dembo, respectively, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, told the groups that he was prepared to sacrifice political patronage to select the best Ministers this time around. “It is not an easy job to sell the administration’s services, we are doing unpopular things and facing powerful individuals and taking on invested interest who are accustomed to the corrupt era. But we must do things the right way; if we promised change then we must deliver it. This is regardless of whose interest is touched. There must be a manifest departure from the old order.” Buhari stated that he was resolute in his promise to leave Nigeria better than he met it, expressed his determined to end the security challenges facing the country and leave it “ a peaceful and prosperous nation” President Buhari told his guests that as a team they had fought a good fight and won the race in the just concluded elections, adding that “Our government continues to grow in strength and will place a firm foundation for future generations. “The 2019 elections are behind us. Nigerians have spoken, and they have spoken loudly in our favour. It is now time to serve them, and serve well. We will not fail. “We will serve honestly, genuinely, and with our heart and might. Our country has oscillated for too long at the level of promises and potentials. It is now time to explore and exploit the potentials for the good of all Nigerians, particularly the ordinary people. It shall be accomplished,’’ he said. “While there will be those who are determined to drag us back to the bad old days, your visit is timely. It is exactly a month ago that I was sworn in for a second term in office. The task ahead for the four years will require a formidable team.” The President’s position is coming on the heels of criticisms that trailed his choice of Ministers and other aides. This time around, the President used the opportunity of the meeting to send a strong message to his supporters on the choice of persons that will form members of his cabinet He described the BMO as a key information management asset to his administration, adding that “Your efforts have been commendable. I cannot thank you enough for your sacrifices during the first part of our journey. “We have just come off a rigorous campaign during which I visited all the 36 states of the federation campaigning, seeking the votes of Nigerians and telling them what we have done in the last four years,” the president said. He reiterated that he campaigned on three simple premises amongst them, tackle insecurity, promote economic diversification and to fight corruption, adding that “ fulfilling these three promises are fundamental to taking Nigeria to the next level. “I assure you that I am resolute on fulfilling these promises and will leave Nigeria a far better place than when we came. “We are making significant progress and these are evident for all to see. Despite attempts by enemies to twist and bend facts, most Nigerians know the truth. “One message that is dear to me which I urged you to propagate is that I am determined to end security challenges we are facing in the country and make Nigeria a peaceful and prosperous country. “I emplore you to continue the good work you have done with such commitment and the determination, ultimately your patriotism and love for this country can never be quantified or repaid.” The delegation included Tunde Thompson, who was imprisoned by Buhari’s administration as military Head of State, under the draconian Degree 4 of 1983. Thompson was sentenced to a year in prison, for writing about the closure and retirement of some diplomatic staff. In his earlier remarks, Akinsiju stated the Organization regularly supports the Buhari Administration by writing and publishing of newspaper opinion articles and press statements to elucidate and amplify government’s programmes and clarify on socio-economic and political issues being undertaken by the administration. “Members have also appeared regularly on television and radio to promote and defend the administration while maintaining an active presence on the social media on daily basis, engaging on issues affecting the President and his administration.” The BMO boss said the Buhari administration has achieved more since the return to democracy in the country with an abundance of facts to prove. 