The House of Representatives Wednesday urged President Muhammadu Buhari to urgently grant the demands of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) popularly called Shiites to forestall further breakdown of law and order from the group. Shiites while protesting the continued incarceration of their leader, Ibrahim Elzakzaky by the Federal Government on Tuesday invaded the National Assembly disarmed security operatives, killed two persons, damaged parked vehicles and vandalized structures. The House of which was forced to adjourned plenary during the invasion by the Islamic Sect also resolved that an adhoc committee be constituted immediately to investigate the unfortunate incident. The committee when constituted, is mandated to find out the involvement of security operatives who manned the entry points when the attack occurred. The House further called for review of internal security of the National Assembly and to employ adequate measures to prevent further security breaches. Also, the House resolved that urgent ways be evolved by the authorities to compensate the victims and those whose vehicles were destroyed. The Green Chamber reached these resolutions sequel to a motion of urgent public importance moved by Minority Leader of the House, Ndudi Elumelu on the attack of Shiite on the National Assembly. Leading the debate, Elumelu noted that the invasion has exposed the porous nature of the NASS security system. According to him, visitors were granted unhindered access to the NASS premises without proper checks and verifications. Ruling, the Speaker, Femi Gbajabimila condemned the invasion and described it as totally unacceptable and granted all the prayers in the motion. Meanwhile, the House of has set up an ad hoc committee to investigate and monitor the recruitment of Nigerians by Ministries, Departments and Agencies, MDAs to determine if federal character principle is adhered to. This decision was taken following a motion of urgent public importance sponsored by Yusuf Gagdi, (APC, Plateau). Gagdi noted that the Federal civil service, the public service and the public sector is the single biggest employer of labour in Nigeria and accounts for the funding of most homes in Nigeria directly and indirectly. He however lamented that numerous Nigerians look forward to obtaining gainful employment with the Federal Government and after filling applications forms, only a few slots will be available.  James Kwen, Abuja