Elisha Abbo, the 41-year-old senator who physically assaulted a nursing mother at a sex toy shop in Abuja, has tendered an unreserved apology. In an emotion laden voice, the embattled senator said the incident could not be used to judge him. Addressing a press conference in Abuja on Wednesday, he sought for forgiveness, saying his religious upbringing does not condone gender based violence. This comes as the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu and the Senate have commenced investigations into the matter. In a 10-minute video that has gone viral, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) lawmaker, dubbed the youngest Nigerian senator, is seen slapping the nursing mother repeatedly at a sex toy shop in Abuja. Though the video surfaced online on Tuesday, the incident was said to have occurred on May 11, a month before Abbo was sworn in on June 11, 2019. The Senate ad hoc committee, which is chaired by a former governor of Ebonyi State, Sam Egwu, has two weeks to submit its report. This followed a point of order raised by Uba Sani (APC, Kaduna) on the floor of the Senate on Wednesday. Speaking under Order 14 of the Senate Standing Order 2015 (as amended), he urged the Senate to take decisive action on the issue to redeem the image and credibility of the upper legislative chamber. According to him, he had received over 100 phone calls both from within and outside Nigeria less than 24 hours after the video surfaced online. He said: “The senator’s action has gone a long way in tarnishing the image and credibility of this distinguished Senate. As a member of this Senate, my own credibility is at stake just like other people here. “It has caused a lot of pains for me and a lot of women around the world not only in Nigeria here. “I therefore call on this distinguished Senate to take a decisive action to redeem the image of this Senate. Between yesterday till this morning, I have received nothing less than 111 (phone) calls, not only from this country but even from outside the country,” he said. The motion was seconded by Michael Opeyemi Bamidele (APC, Ekiti), even as Senate President, Ahmad Lawan said the probe would enable all parties to state their case. Senate Majority Leader, Abdullahi Yahaya and Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe, spoke in the same vein. Other members of the panel include Oluremi Tinubu (APC, Lagos), Matthew Ughoghide (PDP, Edo), Stella Oduah (PDP, Anambra), Dauda Haliru Jika (APC, Bauchi), Mohammed Sani Musa (APC, Niger) and Danladi Sankara (APC, Jigawa). Senate President, Ahmad Lawan who presided over the session, explained that while it remained an allegation, the matter would be investigated and all sides given fair hearing. Speaking to journalists at the PDP National Secretariat in Abuja, Abbo said he had never been associated with violence in the past. He said: “I personally apologise to Bibra and her family for my action towards her, which has brought immense discomfort in our body polity. “Regardless of what transpired prior to my expression of anger, I am sincerely sorry and plead that all men and women of good conscience should have the heart to forgive me. To err is human, to forgive is divine. “To the Church of God everywhere in the world, I am sorry. As an Ambassador of Christ, much is expected of me. “My family and religious upbringing do not give approval to such conduct and for this, as a leader, I seek forgiveness before God and all those who feel offended by my action. “Indeed, this episode has taught me a very great lesson both as a private citizen and a public officer, particularly as a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria upon whom public confidence is bestowed,” he said. Outrage had trailed the incident, as PDP, its former presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, Amnesty International among others had all condemned the lawmaker’s action. 