SeedMoney Africa, an agri-tech company has launched season 2 of its agric investment platform for individuals anywhere to invest in any crop production of their choice to earn a minimum 17 percent on their returns of investment in 9 months. The agric investment platform was created to improve the lives of smallholder farmers in Africa by giving back 10% of the profits to farmers and the communities in which they operate. Seun David Kolawole, co-founder &chief technology officer, SeedMoney Africa, disclosed at the launch that by leveraging technology and harnessing the power of data, SeedMoney offers numerous investing opportunities for its members. Kolawole went further to explain to BusinessDay how the company intends to creatively use technology to track produce from farm to market, thereby making it possible to identify and compensate individual smallholder farmers. “Unlocking Africa’s agricultural potential requires not just innovation, but a hands-on approach in which we focus our resources and our expertise on specific segments of the agricultural value chain. As a tech driven, data focused company, we are perfectly positioned to do this,” Kolawole said in a statement. Similarly, Simi Ajayi, co-founder &chief marketing officer, SeedMoney Africa, explained that through collaboration and strategic partnerships, African agricultural market can be made more efficient and profitable for stakeholders. Speaking on the company’s future plans, Ajayi said that the business plans to expand and replicate its operations in some elected African countries within the next two years. “We have proven our model works, and we have gotten great feedback from our partners, clients and stakeholders. If African agriculture is going to be worth $1 trillion by 2030 as forecasted by the AfDB, then we have to play our part in making this happen by building a more structured and more efficient market,” he said. “Our produce is insured and what that means is that your investments are safe. No risks, just rewards,” he added. Josephine Okojie