In its bid to sustain it’s mission as a leading indigenous satellite company in the country,the Nigerian Communications Satellite Limited ( Nigcomsat) has trained over 200 satellite installers comprising mainly of engineers and technicians to build their capacity on modern techniques. The training is‎ expected to grow the capacity of the installers with modern app techniques that would help them forestall concerns of poor network service provision to consumers. Speaking at the training programme for over 200 installers on Tuesday in Abuja,Samson Osagie,the Executive Director Business Development at Nigcomsat said the installers were engaged to improve capacity ans address some service delivery concerns and complaints of consumers. “We have observed over time that most of customers’ complaints is as a result of poor and inaccurate installation of the equipment hence the need for this training. According to him,”Installers in the course of the training will be opportuned to gain more knowledge about NIGCOMSAT Limited,its footprints and products it offers. They would further learn ‎how to reduce installation time through various installation techniques as well as international certification in the VSAT industry. ‎He said;”You know fully well that ‎Nigcomsat is a satellite communications service provider .By virtue of that Our services and its deployment to ultimate customers are mostly very technical in nature.” Kazeem Kolawale,the Executive Director Technical Services Nigcomsat informed also that the major reason why we are training installers is to build their capacity. “If they are not appropriately trained, they wouuldn’t know the appropriate pointing of the satellites.Like I said in my earlier speech,we have even gone beyond physical stuff,but we could work with our point and play App of our satellite of 42.5 degrees east. He adds,”I want to see this training opportunities as providing direct and indirect jobs for Nigerians.Nigcomsat wants to bring in lots of Nigerians into this so that they could participate in this and key into the vision of government on employment generation.” “This is a good development and the training would help me improve my profession and I would take the experience to improve my profession.”‎ Faith Sam Amaga,a trained installer told BusinessDay.  HARRISON EDEH, ABUJA