The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has slammed a month suspension on the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Ndudi Elumelu and six others over alleged anti-party activities. Addressing a press conference in Abuja on Friday, PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the suspension followed the roles played by the members in flouting the party’s directive on its preferred candidates for minority leadership seats. He listed the other suspended members to include: Wole Oke, Lynda Ikpeazu, Anayo Edwin, Gideon Gwadi, Toby Okechukwu and Adekoya Abdul-Majid. Citing Section 58 of the party’s Constitution (as amended), he accused them of indiscipline, insubordination and disobedience of party directives. “The Party noted the roles played by the members which resulted in the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, reading another list for Minority Leadership of the House other than the list submitted to him by our party, the PDP. PDP said that after a preliminary examination by its NWC, it was evident that the roles played by the affected members, bordered on indiscipline, insubordination, and disobedience of party directives contrary to Section 58 (1)(b)(c)(f)(h) of the PDP Constitution (as amended in 2017). According to the party, this section of its Constitution,  provides that: ‘subject to the provision of this Constitution, the Party shall have power to discipline any member who says or does anything likely to bring the party into disrepute, hatred or contempt; disobeys or neglects to carry out lawful directives of the party or any organ or officer of the party; engages in anti-party activities; or engages in any conduct likely to cause disaffection among members of the party or is likely to disrupt the peaceful, lawful and efficient conduct of the business of the party.’ “Consequent upon this, the above-mentioned members of our party are hereby suspended for one month and this matter is hereby referred to the National Disciplinary Committee of our party, in keeping with Section 57 (3) of the PDP Constitution,” the party said. It was reliably gathered that the main opposition party was irked by the absence of the lawmakers from the meeting of the National Working Committee which summoned them on Friday. The party had earlier rejected Elumelu’s appointment and insisted on Kingsley Chinda as its preferred candidate as Minority Leader. It accused the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, of ignoring the letter nominating Chinda and foisting Elemelu on the House. In a swift reaction, Elemelu attributed his absence and that of other lawmakers to the fact that they were out of Abuja. In a letter dated July 4, he called on the NWC to reschedule the meeting to next Thursday or Friday. The letter signed by Sam Audu, Personal Assistant to the Minority Leader and addressed to the National Secretary, Umar Tsauri reads: “I am to Inform you that the House Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu and other members invited are currently out of Abuja. Notwithstanding, I have notified him and other members about the letters of invitation and they requested that l notify you about their absence from Abuja. “In view of the above, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu and other members invited are requesting that the meeting should be rescheduled for either Thursday or Friday.”