An aspirant under the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that the suffering of the people of Kogi State coupled with his dream 20 years ago is the driving force behind his coming out to aspire to rule the state. Joseph Ameh Erico, a security expert, disclosed this on Friday at NUJ Secretariat, Lokoja during a media parley, pointing out that his coming is to put Kogi in the right track and to build a future for the state. Ameh also said his mind is full of creative ideas which he promised he would unlock when he comes in as the next Governor of Kogi within one year of his administration. He stressed that civil servants are being treated like animals, saying that when he comes in as the governor, salary issue will not be a task as it is a compulsory obligation state government owes the workers in the state. “I am the only one that deals on human beings. God has blessed me and when I come in, families will rejoice. When I come in I will digitalise Kogi State, Kogi will not be analogue again. I don’t displace priorities. We are going to feed our people, pay their salaries, get money and help them,” he said. Ameh, chief executive officer of Real Strikers Security Service Ltd that has over 9,689 staff strength, said he believes in bringing people together so that they can put bread on their tables, also disclosed that his company cuts across the 36 states in the country, including the United States of America. He also maintained that with his vast knowledge, he would fix Kogi State which he said is seriously lacking in various capacities, adding that he has the prerequisite ability to destroy the monster in the state called non-payment of salary to workers. Ameh equally emphasised that being a grassroots person, he knew exactly where the shoes pinch and in collaborating with other patriots have painstakingly put together a compendium of action plan called blueprint that will serve as a guide or political compass that restore Kogi State lost glory, adding that they believe that Kogi must not be a laughing stock among other state of the country “I wish to state categorically that my adventure into politics is not for selfish reason. I am essentially motivated by the political philosophy and ideology of J F Kennedy that says, ‘Don’t ask what your country can do for you but what you can do for your country’ but I am committed to make a difference in the governance of our dear state. I am not going to run a government of terror, but a humane, God-fearing and responsive administration that cares for overall wellbeing of its citizens,” he said. “My dear Kogites, I bring you good tidings and I want you to rejoice. This is because I can see the great fall of your to mentors. The captives of the mighty one are about to be set free. Indeed, I can see everything in your life turning around for good in no distant future. Ours is a mass movement to free Kogi State from the hands of its oppressors. Our leadership philosophy is firmly rooted in the ideology that power belongs to the people and not to a select privileged few. We must now be prepared to take back what rightly belongs to us from the hands of those who have been deprived us of our fundamental rights for years,” he further said. According to him, “I am a Criminologist and an accomplished entrepreneur. I am here soliciting for your support to enable me undertake the onerous task of rebuilding our dear Kogi State. I am putting myself forward to lead the crusade of liberation of Kogi State from the hands of political vandals.”  Victoria Nnakaike, Lokoja