The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari on the worsening insecurity and unrestrained bloodletting in the country, vindicates its position and that of millions of Nigerians that President Buhari has failed as the nation’s chief security officer. The PDP describes the open letter as patriotic, momentous and captures the apprehensions of majority of Nigerians across the board. The party notes that President Obasanjo’s letter reechoes its numerous caution against the violations, insensitivity, impunity, vindictiveness, divisiveness, intolerance and dangerous sectionalism that characterize the Buhari administration and which are jeopardizing our national unity. In a statement Monday by PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party urged President Buhari to read between the lines and listen to the voice of reason from well-meaning Nigerians at this moment. “Our party is deeply worried that our nation, which grew in leaps and bounds in all sectors before the All Progressives Congress (APC) took over in 2015, is now dangerously sliding on all fronts under President Buhari, who has shown crass incompetence in managing our national affairs,” the statement reads. It maintained that had President Buhari heed wise counsel to rejig his parade and respect the wishes and aspirations of Nigerians in the national interest, the nation ‘would not have been on this dangerous bend’. It added: “The fact remains that President Buhari has not demonstrated the capacity to lead a nation as complex as our Nigeria. Events have shown that he cannot handle our diversities and ensure a united and equitable country that guarantees fairness, justice and space to all citizens without fear or favour. “The PDP therefore counsels President Buhari to listen to the pulse of our nation; accept his failure and seek help from other well-meaning Nigerians so as to take back our nation from this imminent precipice. “The party also calls on all Nigerians across the divides, irrespective of creed, ethnicity and political leaning, to close ranks, eschew all primordial and parochial interests and work together for the stability of our dear nation”.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja