The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State has condemned the gruesome killing of Mrs Funke Olakunrin, daughter of Afenifere leader, Pa Reuben Fasoranti by unknown gunmen. The party’s Director of Media and Publicity, Zadok Akintoye in a statement said the death of Mrs Olakunrin was a big blow to the entire country. The opposition party called on all security agencies to fish out the killers and put an end to the increasing spate of insecurity in the region. ” We commiserate with the family of Chief Reuben Fasoranti on the unfortunate and premature death of his daughter, Mrs Funke Olakunrin who was killed by alleged murderous Fulani herdsmen along the Akure-Ore highway. ” This is one more commiseration that we would have hoped not to give at this time, as her murder remains too deep a blow to bear: callous, unbearable, painful and disheartening to us. ” We hereby call on the security agencies in the state to bring the perpetrators of this heinous crime to book; not just for Funke but for the thousands of fellow citizens that have been murdered and taken captive by these evil marauders, who have left many innocent men and women without proper burial in our jungles while government excuses its responsibility of protecting the lives of our people. ” At this most crucial time in our nation, we must here again call for prayers for our country, that GOD may bring this evil to an end as we re-echo the passionate cries of fellow citizens for government to take immediate action in ridding our jungles of herdsmen, terrorists and vicious kidnapping rings who seem hellbent on destroying Yoruba land. ” We use this opportunity to stand as a voice for those presently held captive by this kidnappers in our jungles by calling on the security agencies to do all that is needed to ensure that one more Nigerian life is not wasted in this state without cause. ” Once again, our prayers goes to the Fasoranti family on this untimely loss. May the LORD give you the fortitude to bear the sorrow of this untimely loss and grant Late Mrs Olakunrin, eternal repose in HIS bosom.” Also, the Oodua Youth Coalition (OYC) has lamented the killing of Fasoranti’s daughter ,adding that government must rise to the occasion and secure its citizens across the country. According to a statement by Oluyi Tayo Akintade and Oluwagbenga Ajogbonla, National President and the National Publicity Secretary of the group noted that the recent security summit by the governors was not yielding any results. ” Oodua Youth Coalition(OYC), received with great shock and disbelief, the killing of Madam Olufunke Olakunrin, the second daughter of our amiable, reliable and foremost Afenifere leader, Pa Reuben Fasoranti, who has committed his whole life to the unity, prosperity and security of Yoruba land, by men of the underworld. ” OYC commiserates with Baba Fasoranti and his family on the loss of their daughter to the cold hands of death earlier today and prays for the end of this sad and unfortunate occurrence. ” The leadership of OYC is concerned that those vested with the power and resources to protect and safeguard the lives of the governed have either gone to sleep or turn blind eyes to the recurring deaths and abductions by these rampaging marauders. The recent security summit by the Yoruba governors has yielded little or no results even as the crimes, mostly unreported, go unabated. ” OYC totally condemns these continuous attacks on the lives of residents of the land and urges the security apparatus to stay true to the oath they swore to and fish out the perpetrators of this dastardly act as soon as possible,” the group said.  YOMI AYELESO , Akure