The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has called on the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki to obey the resolution of the House of Representatives an issue fresh proclamation for proper inauguration of the Edo State House of Assembly. Lanre Issa-Onilu, APC National Publicity Secretary who stated this Sunday at a press conference in Abuja lamented how impunity which is associated with Peoples Democratic Party have found its way into an APC government in Edo State. A House Representatives ad hoc Committee last week urged Edo State Governor to issue a fresh proclamation within one week in line with section 105(3) of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended ) for a proper inauguration of the State’s 7th Assembly. Speaking on issue, the APC Spokesperson insisted that the constitution has stipulated that House of Representatives has power to direct the Governor to do the right thing without which the National Assembly can take over the Edo State Assembly. According to him, “as far as Edo State Assembly elections is concerned, House of Representatives has done the right thing by ordering the governor to follow the rule of law. “In Edo  you have a situation where you have 9 members some of them in short nicker were hurriedly put together and inaugurated and even put in place leadership structure to run the House of Assembly when you have 24 Members who are legitimate Members of the legislature. “The media has actually not focused on what the issues are. The media have allowed themselves to be led away from the issues. It is a standard we want to apply anywhere whether it is PDP state, whether its APC state. The rule of law has to be followed and we have demonstrated even as a party at the national level. “I feel ashamed as a member of APC that an APC State (Edo) is involved in impunity. That is not the kind of reputation we want to have. “We would have conveniently deal with Bauchi because Bauchi is a PDP state and whatever is going on there is not strange because that is what has been in the PDP”. On the development in Bauchi, Issa-Onilu said, “in Bauch we all saw what happened, a 31 Member House of Assembly and just about 11 Members hurriedly gathered themselves and purportedly inaugurated. That is taking us back five, six, seven years. Nigeria has passed that stage. “We are no longer going to allow it no matter what! This is the issue, not somebody claiming that he is not allowed to govern. I don’t understand what exactly that is supposed to mean.”