Nigerian Bottling Company (NBC) makers of Eva Table water have reacted to concerns over two batches of its water drink. According to NBC, it voluntarily notified the National Agency for Food Drug Administration and Control NAFDAC of two batches of Eva water produced from May 22-23 this year at its Asejire Plant in Ibadan, one of the company’s 8 manufacturing plants across the country, with batch number 220519.14.27 AC4 and 230519.15.15 AC4 which did not meet the quality standard. “The company reported a change in colour of the product from colourless to light green in the batch and presence of particles to NAFDAC on June 20, 2019,” the statement said. NBC further noted that it has commenced the withdrawal of the affected batches and cooperating with NAFDAC in their investigation. The batch numbers can be found around the neck of the bottle. Eva Premium Table water is one of Nigeria’s popular brands of bottled water and owned by soft-drink giant, Coca-Cola. In a statement issued by the NBC Director, Public Affairs and Communications, Ekuma Eze said the Nigerian Bottling Company is aware of the Public Alert No. 0011/2019 issued by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control. “We had commenced the withdrawal of the affected batches which are 220519.14.27 AC4 and 230519.15.15 AC4, prior to the NAFDAC announcement and are cooperating with the agency in their investigation. “We regret the inconvenience this issue may have caused our consumers, and we request consumers in possession of products with the stated batch numbers to return them to our nearest offices or distributors/dealers for replacement.” NBC, however, assured consumers that there were no issues with other batches of Eva Water, adding, “We reassure our consumers of our commitment to the highest quality standards, product safety, and consumer satisfaction.” NAFDAC had earlier ordered the soft-drink giant to recall of the two batches due to a change in colour and presence of particles. While the production of Eva Premium Table Water 75cl at Nigerian Bottling Company Limited, Asejire, Ibadan, Oyo State has been suspended pending the outcome of the investigation being conducted by the Agency.