Rotary International District 9110 has concluded plans to wage war against the spread of cervical cancer, Congenital Heart Diseases and also reduce Poverty among the people of Lagos and Ogun States. This was stated Thursday by the new District Governor, Jide Akeredolu, at a media parley preceding his official installation where funds shall be raised to undertake key humanitarian projects for the 2019-2020 Rotary year. According to the District governor, the District, under his watch shall mobilise funds from volunteers within and outside the Rotary Circles in order to bring the projects to fruition. Speaking further, Akeredolu hinted that the cervical cancer prevention programme has become a priority to his administration, going by the alarming rate at which lives are being lost to the deadly disease in recent times. World health Organisation statistics show that 26 women die of cervical cancer in Nigeria every day. That translates into one cervical cancer death every 55 minutes! Cervical cancer is unique because it is a cancer that is completely preventable by vaccination against the Human Papilloma Virus. Another project being planned is the treatment of Congenital Heart Diseases which has continued to claim lives of many children, especially those from indigent families who cannot afford the costs of open heart surgery. Also, the District Governor said that a significant proportion of funds raised during his tenure shall be devoted to addressing the needs of people who are in extreme poverty through empowerment programmes, using the existing Rotary Vocational Training Centre in Igbogbo, Ikorodu as a pool from where beneficiaries would be sourced. This, he said will be in fulfilment of Rotary’s commitment to giving hope to the vulnerable people around the world. While reflecting on funding, he noted that a total of N200 million is required for the various projects and programmes in his tenure. Part of this he said, is hoped to be raised via grant from the Rotary Foundation while well-meaning individuals and corporate bodies are expected to partner by donating cash or providing materials and logistic support. “We hope to achieve a lot through medical missions in driving the Congenital Heart Disease project,” he said, adding that each mission is open for sponsorship for the sum of one thousand dollars. Akeredolu also stated that as part of its fund raising initiative, the District has launched a One million dollar challenge, which gives Rotarians and their friends the opportunity of winning a brand new saloon car and other juicy prizes by just donating to the Rotary Foundation. The Rotary Foundation is the arm of Rotary, which collects and manages voluntary donations from around the world. Districts and clubs across the world access funds of the Foundation to implement impactful projects around the world. The Official Installation Ceremony, which comes up on Saturday 6th July 2019 at the Muson Centre, Lagos is to be graced by eminent personally such as Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, Reuben Abati and His Royal Majesty, Oba Rilwan Akiolu, the Oba of Lagos.