Ten more victims of July 4 pipeline explosion in Ijegun area of Lagos have died while still on admission in hospitals. The state government, which confirmed the death on Monday, attributed it to severe and high degree burns suffered from the inferno. Titilayo Goncalves, the permanent secretary in the ministry health, however, said over N10 million has been expended by the government on medical treatment of the victims as at Monday, August 8. According to Goncalves, three of the victims died at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja while seven died at Gbagada General Hospital. Shefurtherdisclosedthatout of the 22 victims rescued by the Lagos State Ambulance Service (LASAMBUS), nine were taken to LASUTH, 12 to Trauma and Burns Unit of Gbagada General Hospital and one to Alimosho General Hospital. “Unfortunately, due to the high degree of burns suffered by these victims which is almost at 100 percent, we lost 10 of them. “But we are doing everything to ensure that additional lives are not lost and we will continue to do all in our might to provide intensive care for the remaining and from reports received they are responding to treatment. She said treatment of victims with high percentage of burns requires intensive care and management which should follow some treatment protocol. “This is why I am appealing to families of the victims to be calm and cooperate with our health workers as they care for their loved ones. The victims are being provided with adequate and quality care in our facilities free of charge in line with Governor Babajide Sanwo-olu’s directive. “Also, they are being closely monitored and cared for by our specialists to ensure their full recovery and rehabilitation”, Goncalves said. Also, the Chief Medical Director, LASUTH, Adetokunbo Fabamwo, said that the hospital and its annex, the Trauma and Burns Unit, Gbagada General Hospital, were providing the necessary care and support needed to aid the victims’ quick recovery. The July 4 pipeline explosion at Ijegun had claimed two lives on the spot, destroyed several houses and property, and left 13 casualties.