Veronica Obatolu, executive director of the Institute of Agricultural Research and Training (IAR&T), Ibadan, has said that the institute would continue to strive to secure safe and adequate food for the growing Nigerian population. While reiterating the institute’s commitment in achieving food sufficiency in the country, she said it would also provide the necessary technology for environmental sustainability. Obatolu, a professor gave the assurance while speaking at a seminar organized for staff of the institute, tagged ‘A Paradigm Shift in IAR&T’s Agriculture for Food and Nutrition Security.’ According to her, our focus should be on the efficiency and effectiveness of technology and also to have innovative thinking to address institutional barriers to technology change. Speaking at the seminar on the new research focus held at the institute premises affirmed that millions of Nigerians are dying annually due to what she referred to as hidden hunger, lack of micro elements in their daily diets. She insisted that every Nigerian has the right to adequate food, both in quality and in quantity, to satisfy their daily needs in terms of nutrients requirement. She however, called on the Federal Government to do everything within its means to tackle hunger in the country through sustainable agricultural policies and programmes. “Health comes from the farm and not from the pharmacy. Agriculture has its important role in fighting malnutrition; our soil and the fertilizer strategy must enhance human nutrition and food security,” she said. Also speaking at the event, Funso Sonaiya of the faculty of agriculture, Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, urged researchers in agricultural research institutes to come together to find solutions to the high rate of hunger in the country. Sonaiya,a professor said the researchers were key to innovation and development in any area, saying rather than making excuses, they should join hands together and provide the needed platform. Akinloye Farinde, professor from agricultural extension department in OAU also admonished researchers in Nigeria to come out with research ideas capable of solving smallholder farmers’ challenges.  REMI FEYISIPO, Ibadan