As the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation ,NNPC enters new era with Melo Kyari assuming full responsibilities as the new Group Managing Director of the corporation on 8th of July 2019,the new helmsman at the corporation has set a target of 2023 to ensure all Nigerian local refineries operate at optima capacity. ‎”Before 2023.,we will work hard to deliver all Nigerian local refineries to perform optimally,and become the net exporter of fuel globally.This is a target we have set for ourselves and we would achieve it.”Melo Kyari,the new Group Managing Director of NNPC said in his acceptance speech as he assumes the leadership of the helmsman of the corporation. Kyari gave the information during an acceptance speech on Monday at the corporation’s headqauters in Abuja,having been officially handed over the mantle of leading the affairs of the corporation on‎ Monday. ‎He notes that the corporation would work to deliver an oil company that 200 million Nigerians would be proud to be shareholders of. According to Kyari,”NNPC under my watch will not be opaque,and we have the responsibility of being accountable to avail information to about 200 million Nigerians who actually own the company.We will work with the press to ensure more transparency. He states further that the corporation would work with global transparency bodies such as Extractive International and Transparency Initiative,EITI,alongside working with the Nigerian Extractive Transparency and Extractive Initiative,NEITI,and the global Open Government Partnership which President Buhari signed on to as a committment to Nigeria’s stance in fight against corruption. There would no corruption where there is no discretion.We are going to work with EFCC to take out discretion in our system.What does it tell you that the chairman of an anti-corruption agency is attending the retirement of the Chief Executive of an office people see as corrupt.It means that the NNPC hgas changes.We are going to work more closely with him. Speaking on collaboration with International Oil companies,he said:‎”We are going to work with the Iocs to grow productions,grow reserve and ensure a win win situation. In his earlier valedictory remarks,Maikanti Baru,the immediate past GMD of NNPC said the corporation is in safe hands with Kyari at the helm of affairs,urging him to Surpass any target set by him in his 1099 days as the GMD. He listed some of key achievements to include: increased and sustained crude oil and gas production to above 2million barrels (2.3 million barrels per day as at 5th July 2019) and gas production of 8,000MMscfd. “Reduced contracting cycle from 24-36 months to 9 months.
Revitalized, improved and sustained NPDC equity production from 22kbopd in 2016 to 165kbopd in 2018. “Actively renegotiated the cash call arrears repayment and exit.
Lead the PSC disputes resolution and PSC Terms’ renegotiation. “Focused on supporting the various financing syndications and successfully delivered the over $10bn raised.
Structured the transition from JV to IJV and set up the asset management structures in NPDC and NNPC JVs.‎”He said.  HARRISON EDEH,ABUJA