Tecno mobile has launched the long-awaited addition to the Tecno Phantom smartphone series. The new device, Phantom 9, comes with an array of technology enhanced features that bring a whole new dimension to the smartphone experience. One of its exciting new features include an Artificial Intelligent (AI) triple camera and double front facing flash, that allows users to take immersive wide-angle photographs of landscapes, cityscapes, indoor architecture and group selfies easily. Speaking at the Tecno Phantom 9 launch event in Lagos on Thursday July 4, 2019, Jesse Oguntimehin, strategic marketing communications manager, Tecno mobile said that the company had taken extra time and effort to make sure that the new device is premium in terms of features, look and feel. “After over a year since the release of the Tecno Phantom 8, we have decided to come out with the enhanced premium Phantom 9. From the stunning blend of colours at the back, to the crisp AMOLED screen with water drop notch at the top and in-display fingerprint scanner, Tecno has really taken it a step further with the blend of technology in this device,” he said. The AI triple camera on the Phantom 9 is a 16MP (megapixel) + 2MP+8MP, 120- degree main camera that makes wide angle photography possible. It also makes it possible to take close-up shots that still remain clear. The triple camera supports 2.5cm extreme close-up shots, so tiny details can be seen clearly. The triple camera function also comes equipped with Google Lens, so the Tecno Phantom 9 can do smart identification of objects as soon as they come into the view of the camera. The device does this by automatically showing all the relevant information on the object. “This new device has been in the pipeline for a while. With the amazing AI Triple Camera plus other wonderful features, we are proud to say it was worth the wait. Photography enthusiasts and business professionals will find that is a great addition to their work and entertainment toolbox,” said Stephen HA, vice president of Transsion Holdings and managing director of Tecno. There are also other features that make the device stand out such as an Octa-core 2.35GHz MT6765 processor with 6gigabyte (6GB) random access memory (RAM) plus 12GB memory space. This means that the device has plenty of memory space for storing files and no freezing even while running three or more apps simultaneously. There is also a first of its kind drop screen dual front flashlight. This will greatly help users who take photo shots at night or in low light conditions. Other features include Bluetooth 5.0 which makes connecting one device to anothereasier and transferring files faster; 4G LTE capacity for smooth high0speed browsing; and a sizeable 3,500mAh battery. Oguntimehin revealed that the new device is priced at 77,000 naira in the Nigerian retail market.