The United States are the Champions of the 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup following an emphatic victory over Netherlands, winning the the trophy a record fourth time . Megan Rapinoe’s penalty and Rose Lavelle’s fine run and finish gave the defending champions victory in the second half, after resilient first-half defending from the Dutch. Veteran winger Rapinoe’s calmly-slotted opener came from a spot-kick awarded after a video assistant referee (VAR) review, at the end of a tournament in which the system has been a major talking point. Barcelona defender Stefanie van der Gragt’s high boot caught USA striker Alex Morgan and French referee Stephanie Frappart pointed to the spot after assessing replays, and the holders did not look back after taking the lead. The European champions, reaching the final in only their second World Cup, kept the favourites at bay in the first half as former Arsenal goalkeeper Sari van Veenendaal produced four excellent saves. But the USA, playing in their third consecutive final, continued their reign as the world’s finest side as they added to their titles of 1991, 1999 and 2015. Rapinoe’s goal also meant she won the Golden Boot after finishing with six goals and three assists, while she also took the Golden Ball award for the tournament’s best player. Netherlands have now lost their last seven matches against the United States in all competitions by an aggregate score of 24-2. – USA attacker Megan Rapinoe is just the second player in history to start three Women’s World Cup finals (2011, 2015, 2019) after Germany’s Birgit Prinz (1995, 2003, 2007). The USA scored 26 goals at the 2019 Women’s World Cup, the most by a team at a single tournament in the competition’s history. The USA’s Megan Rapinoe became the first player to score a penalty in a Women’s World Cup final, as well as being the oldest scorer in a final (34 years and two days). – This was a 12th consecutive victory at the Women’s World Cup for the USA – the longest run in the history of the FIFA World Cup (men’s and women’s). 