 The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has tasked the Federal Government to fish out the killers of Funke Olakunrin, daughter of the leader of the pan-Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere, Pa Reuben Fasoranti. Condemning the development on Saturday, the main opposition party said the killing of Funke Olakunrin marked yet another national loss occasioned by the failure of the Buhari administration to secure the nation beyond lip service. This, it lamented, had emboldened marauders in the country. Funke Olakunrin was murdered along the Benin-Ore Road at the weekend by unidentified gunmen. In a statement signed on Saturday by PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party also condemned what it called  ‘unpardonable lethargy in apprehending Funke’s killers’. The party described as heartrending that under the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, Nigeria had become a killing field and large funeral palour with insurgents, bandits and assassins having a field day waylaying and killing innocent compatriots, especially those making very useful contributions to the development of the nation. “Our party is worried that security agencies are rather engaging in debates over the identity of the killers and hurriedly pointing to a case of abduction even before any extensive investigation has been carried out on the horrific and dastardly act. “The PDP posits that Funke Olakunrin must not die in vain. Our dear nation must not continue to lose her finest and brightest in the hands of bandits. Our party therefore charges the authorities to go beyond condolence messages from Abuja and take concrete steps to apprehend Funke Olakunrin’s killers, as well as ensure security of lives in our nation. “The PDP, while condoling Pa Fasoranti, charges the Inspector General of Police, Adamu Mohammed, to take immediate and decisive steps, beyond the lip service of the Buhari administration, to track down the killers without further delay and make them face the full wrath of the law, no matter who they are,” the statement reads. 