Bayelsa State Governor, Henry Seriake Dickson has organised a three-day interdenominational prayer and fasting programme to seek divine intervention in getting the right person as his successor. Dickson is expected to hand over to his successor on February 2020 after eight years in office with party primaries billed for early August and the governorship election taking place in November. At the interdenominational programme which commenced last Wednesday in Yenagoa, the governor stated that his successor should be a person of courage, who should be able to speak out on critical issues affecting the state In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media Relations, Victor Soriwei, he said the next governor should be able to speak out and say the bitter truth on critical issues irrespective of whoever was involved. He explained that the state organised the programme to seek the face of God in the process of selecting the next leader due the enormous influence of the office and the need for the right person to succeed him. Dickson restated his call on Bayelsans to prevent the emergence of a governor who could use political appointments to lure the people to cultism and other evil practices, saying he did not use his position to lure any of his 1,500 appointees into cultism, but led the state in the direction of God. “This transition is not about me. So many people in my shoes will be relaxing, but we are still working from morning till night. This transition is about our state, about our people, about Christians possessing their possession. We have made a lot of progress. We want good, committed, patriotic, decisive and compassionate leaders. “My prayer is that the person God will raise for us will do better than I; that person will not fail. The way I have worked for our people, defended their interest, spoken on behalf of the people, he will do,” he said. Dickson lamented the attitude of some members of the political class who would even react with bitterness when universities, an airport, good roads, health facilities and key developmental projects are built in the state.  Samuel Ese, Yenagoa