Foremost business solution consulting firm, Verraki has reiterated the need for a new outlook for Nigeria’s education system, in a bid to foster a clearer path to sustainable development in the country. Toluwaleke Adenmosun, head of the service practice for Verraki Nigeria, stated that the education sector is critical in enabling transformation in the country, adding that both formal education and skill acquisition are necessary for achieving growth and enabling development. Speaking on sustainable financing for innovative teaching and learning at the 5th edition of the NEDIS education innovation summit held recently in Lagos, Adenmosun stated that “addressing the issue of financing education requires a clear strategy that explains what the focus is on, and a clear understanding of what type of education is to be provided.” She disclosed that in its aim to develop learning activities, the business solutions firm is committed to partnering with the government to create an Africa that represents its potential and also belongs to Africans, adding that “it is time for Africans to make Africa an enabling and developed continent.” She said. Speaking further she said “we are investing a lot more in post 12 stages of education which should not deter the foundation of learning, rather emphasis should be placed on the kindergarten to 12 years stage because it serves as the foundation of learning and it provides room for accountability.” She reiterated that technological innovation should be embraced and initiated into the education system. “The opportunities available in technological innovation and connectivity should be embraced in other to foster growth and development in all areas” “over the years we have worked with and supported organizations like Junior Achievement Nigeria (JAN), Fate Foundation, etc. we are also actively involved in skill acquisition and development activities as our plan encompasses the learning system as a whole. We also have programs that provide a platform to achieve affordable education through improved ease of payment,” Adenmosun added.  Gbemi Faminu