The Delta State Judiciary Fund Management Financial Autonomy Bill has passed through the second reading at the Delta State House of Assembly. The second reading of the bill, which is also the second executive bill in the seventh assembly, was sequel to a motion moved by the Majority Leader, Tim Owhefere, seconded by Reuben Izeze and adopted at Thursday’s plenary presided over by the speaker, Sheriff Oborevwori. Opening debate on the bill, the Majority Leader, Owhefere, said the bill would enable the judiciary operate without fear or favour as it would further entrench the fact that the judiciary was the hope of the common man. He argued that the separation of powers in a democratic setting would come into play as the judiciary would receive its funding directly from the federation account as clearly defined in the fourth alteration of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended by the National Assembly, granting financial autonomy to the legislature and judiciary. The Majority Leader, who highlighted various clauses in the bill, said there would be a Fund Management Board that would be established in line with the bill when passed with the Chief Judge as chairman, President of the Customary of Appeal as vice chairman, among others, to ensure transparency. Owhefere argued that there would be probity and accountability as there would be a due process unit in line with the Due Process law passed by the House. Others who spoke in support of the bill were the members representing Ika North East, Anthony Elekeokwuri, Ughelli North 1, Charles Oniyere, Ndokwa West, Charles Emetulu, and Uvwie, Solomon Ighrakpata. They noted the separation of powers as subscribed by the House during the fourth alteration of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended and opined that the bill showed that the executive was ready for good governance. The lawmakers argued that the bill would strengthen and promote the independence of the judiciary, as there was clear financial structure in the administration of funds. Other members who spoke in favour of the bill said it clearly spelt spending and approval limit of the Chief Judge and the Board as well as had powers to co-opt anybody outside the board based on any issue without voting powers. The lawmakers argued that the bill would institutionalize the instructions of democracy, as it would repeal the existing law. The second reading of the bill was unanimously adopted when put to a voice vote by the speaker, Oborevwori. The speaker thereafter set up an ad-hoc committee to scrutinise the bill and submit its report to the House on Tuesday, July 23, 2019.