Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has denied withdrawing $470 million to sponsor himself and some persons including All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains to watch the Nigeria-Cameroon match at the ongoing African Cup of Nations (AFCON) tournament in Egypt. Sanwo-Olu, in a statement by his deputy chief press secretary, Gboyega Akosile, on Sunday, debunked the claim by the main opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, stressing that the trip was funded by the Federal Government. “There is nothing farther to the truth than this statement,” Sanwo-Olu said, referring to the allegation by the PDP. He added that the claim “follows the same pattern of falsehoods usually dished out to the public by the PDP and its mouthpiece”. The statement said the governor did not make any withdrawal for the purpose of attending the AFCON in Egypt, but rather was named among some other dignitaries to attend the football tournament. It said the PDP resorted to issuing press statements based on fake news on social media. “Does it not stand logic on its head to allege that Governor Sanwo-Olu spent $470m to fund a trip that he was nominated as a delegate?” the statement queried. “As we have always stated, we will again suggest to the Lagos State PDP and her spokesman to always fact-check before putting pen on paper. Opposition politics is not built on lies and fake news,” the statement further read. It would be recalled that the Federal Government sent a delegation led by Senate President Ahmed Lawan to the AFCON 2019. Other members of the delegation are Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha. Governor Sanwo-Olu and his Delta State counterpart, Ifeanyi Okowa, were nominated and approved by President Muhammadu Buhari for the trip. Also on the list are Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor, Godwin Emefiele, president of the Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC), Habu Gumel, and a representative of the presidency, Captain Hosa Okunbo. The permanent secretary in the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports, Olusade Adesola, and Muhammad Gambo, the ministry’s director of facilities, are also members of the delegation, which include a former minister of youth and sports, Solomon Dalung, to complete the 11-man list.  SEGUN OLAKOYENIKAN