Bayer, a global enterprise with core competencies in the life sciences, in partnership with Nuffield Brazil, has selected 100 participants across 45 countries for the fourth edition of the Youth Ag Summit holding in Brasília, Brazil from November 4th to 6th 2019. The Youth Ag Summit, part of the Bayer Agricultural Education Program, brings together young change makers aged 18 and 25 to tackle the challenges of feeding a growing population by 2050. Among the selected 100 youths were two Nigerians and a Ghanaian – three delegates that will represent the West and Central Africa sub-region. Iyanuoluwa Aliu (23) from Nigeria is an AgriTech advocate and a social entrepreneur who is poised on leveraging technological innovations to boost food production in Africa, while Esther Ajari (23) also from Nigeria is a medical student and gender equality advocate committed to exploring different to success. Rosalinda Agana (23) from Ghana is an NGO founder, entrepreneur and alumni of CAMFED in Ghana, committed to encouraging girls to become agripreneurs. Liam Condon, a member of the board of the management of Bayer AG and head of crop science division, said, “the 100 delegates heading to Brazil in November all share a commitment to driving innovation in agriculture, which is vital if we are to both feed the world and ensure healthy ecosystems.” Also, Rodrigo Santos, head of crop science division in Latin America, Bayer AG, said, “Latin America has an important role in the challenge of feeding a hungry planet, so we´re very happy to receive these incredible young leaders to discuss such an important topic as food security. I hope Brazil’s thriving agricultural sector inspires our delegates to develop their innovative ideas.” For the 100 chosen delegates, the Youth Ag Summit will function as an idea incubator: helping them turn their ideas into reality and equipping them with the skills needed to realize their projects. They will also hear from expert speakers and participate in field trips to learn more about the agricultural industry in Brazil.  Odinaka Anudu