Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos State, has charged today’s leaders to learn from the exemplary leadership qualities of Lateef Jakande, who was the first civilian governor of the state. The governor noted that Jakande’s legacy in leadership and governance remained a reference point in contemporary history, despite leaving government for more than three decades ago. Sanwo-Olu made the observation yesterday on the occasion of 90th birthday of Jakande which was held at Havens Event Centre in GRA Ikeja. He described Jakande’s personal life as “selfless and exemplary”, stressing that the ex-governor’s achievements became the pathway for progressive governance in the country. According to him, “Lagos, under the Baba Jakande, became a pillar of support not only to neighbouring states, but also to faraway states, including Borno State, where he made landmark contribution. This goes to show that the progressive mind of Jakande has been with him ever since. “It’s something that all of us needs to copy. I wish today’s leaders could borrow from this example, which shows us how states can collaborate for greater development and opportunities. Jakande did it 40 years ago as governor of Lagos State and scored several firsts.” According to him, “Jakande is a national name that is synonymous with development, either in provision of potable water, quality education and housing.” The governor further announced the naming of its 496-flat Igando Garden Estate after the octogenarian. Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo felicitating with the former Lagos governor, thanked God for sparing his life. In his tribute, Bola Tinubu, national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), described Jakande as a foremost progressive in Africa, stressing that his loyalty to the cause of progressive politics and his leader, the late Obafemi Awolowo, earned him unparalleled respect. According to him, “Papa Jakande had many firsts at a time it was extremely difficult to govern. One of the key qualities of Jakande is his unshakable, non-negotiable loyalty to his leader, Obafemi Awolowo go blessed memory.” According to Tinubu, “Ideologically, Jakande has never departed from the progressive path. One record we must accept here, which is the best gift to Jakande is that, progressive governance has never failed in Lagos.” Olusegun Osoba, who was chairman of the occasion, said that Jakande was an accomplished Nigerian by all standards, saying he was already a global brand as a journalist and editor before he delved into public service. “Our celebrant does not have a deserved national honour when people of lesser contributions strut around the country with national honours. It is my recommendation that Jakande be decorated with nothing less than the Commander of the Federal Republic,” Osoba said.  Joshua Bassey and Iniobong Iwok