As weekend comes knocking, OkadaBooks is too. So grab a glass of palm wine, sorry just wine- any wine, and enjoy. Read More :  OkadaBooks for the weekend featuring Lilian Ezak&#8217;s Banking on Love In the Name of Papa by Sally Kenneth-Dadazie Everyone has something to hide. Nasty skeletons in the closet, a secret child, a scorned mistress… George Omotosho, the founder of Bethel Covenant Center, fondly known as Papa by his congregation, is about to be hit with a series of scandals that would shame the pope. His family is not left out in the drama, particularly his daughter-in-law, Loveth, who has her own nasty past to deal with. In The Name Of Papa brings you sizzling church drama, exposing the parts the men behind the cloth always hide from their flock. It disrobes your pastors like you’ve never seen before. It’s a story of sinners and saints and the thin line that runs between them. Start Reading Read More :  OkadaBooks Weekend reads: &#8216;Are all the Men in Lagos Married?&#8217;, others Drowning Fears  by OmotayoKeleosho Temidayo Johnson, a victim of: school bully, inadequate and poor parenting, rape..is sure that her life has no meaning. This uncertainty heightens when AzubuikeNnamdiShows up, but there is still that one friend. Enitan. Follow this story of becoming, overcoming fears, forgiveness and love. Start Reading Neglected by Lucy ChiamakaOkwuma Utilizing to maximum the benefit of fiction to help you exist in different persons and worlds, Lucy explores the hidden darkness and the eyes that is caught in this darkness of mental health disorders, exploring family, self-discovery and love. Start Reading Dead Cats Dont Meow by Tolu A. Akinyemi Dead Cats Don’t Meow urges its readers not to waste their ninth life… the author of the collection of poetic wisdom for the discerning adds his third compendium of poems to the bookshelves alongside Dead Lions Don’t Roar and Dead Dogs Don’t Bark. Tolu A. Akinyemi, renowned poet, author and performer, brings to us Dead Cats Don’t Meow, a metrical masterpiece, which invokes love and respect for life with every word. Each poem examines a part of life, a sensation, a reaction or an emotion. Beautifully written… individually, the verses breathe their own beat, whilst the collection knits together perfectly to present an idyllic anthology. Start Reading You know OkadaBooks got your weekend, so please relish in the pleasure of reading.