The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Apapa Area 1 Command has said it recorded a total export goods of 95,229.1 metric tonnes with Free on Board (FOB) value of $46,613,453.75 equivalent to over N14.25 billion in the first six months, January to June 2019. The Command also announced total revenue of approximately N203.26 billion for the period under review, which represents 54.5 percent of its annual revenue target of N372.56 billion. Speaking to newsmen in Lagos on Tuesday during the mid-year briefing, Muhammed Abba-Kura, Customs Area Controller of the command, said most of the exported items were mostly mineral resources and agricultural produce including sesame seeds, cashew nuts and others. Abba-Kura, who said export trade through the port, has been on the rise, pointed out that exporters must ensure that all documents needed for exports are readily available before bringing the cargo to the ports. According to him, bringing the goods to the port before commencing documentation would result to port congestion and accumulation of demurrage charges. Meanwhile, Abba-Kura said the revenue generated by command in H1 exceeded the N176.7 billion generated the same period in 2018 by N26.5 billion. “This feat was made possible by strict adherence to professionalism through sensitisation of officers as to their responsibilities in line with the standard operating procedures for optimal revenue collection.” “Other factors include periodic stakeholder engagements, open-door policy, prompt resolution of disputes by the Dispute Resolution Committee, as well as maintaining the right synergy and collaboration with sister-agencies,” he added. In area of anti-smuggling, the command seized 29 containers of various items that contravened trade procedures, with a cumulative Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N418.4 million. The items include tomato paste, vegetable oil, tramadol, ladies and girls’ fashion footwear, armoured glasses without End-User Certificate, as well as drilling pipes labelled in foreign language. The controller however assured importers and exporters that all legitimate and compliant trade that certifies the necessary procedures concerning the transactions will get accelerated clearance from the command. “We would continue to build capacity for both officers and stakeholders operating within the command to acquaint them with modern trends, government fiscal policies and NICIS 11 operative system, among others, to bring everyone on same page for optimal service, and for timely cargo release,” he added.  AMAKA ANAGOR-EWUZIE