In an unprecedented move, President Muhammadu Buhari has rejected in one fell swoop 19 bills passed by the Eighth National Assembly, bringing the total number of declined bills to 63. This comes as the President has assented to nine bills passed by the Eighth Assembly whose tenure elapsed on June 8, 2019. It would be recalled that the President had rejected 44 bills earlier passed by both chambers of the Eighth National Assembly. Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), Ita Enang, disclosed this while addressing journalists in Abuja on Wednesday. Among the newly rejected bills are the Industrial Development (Income Tax Relief) Amendment Bill as well as the Nigerian Automative Industry Development Plan (Physical Incentive Assurances and Guarantees) Bill. While the former amends the Industrial Development (Income Tax Relief) Act by allowing companies that expand their operations in pioneer industry to apply for a new pioneer status, the latter seeks to stimulate local content promotion, while ensuring that indigenous production is increased by encouraging revival of automotive plants across the country for job creation. Although the President gave no reason for declining the bills, Enang explained that by virtue of Buhari’s Proclamation which brought the Ninth Assembly into life, the Eighth Assembly no longer exist. The presidential aide, was, however silent on the President’s position on the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill and the Electoral Act Amendment Bill passed by both chambers of the last Assembly. The Eighth Assembly which was inaugurated on June 9, 2015, was dissolved on June 8, 2015. The liaison officer listed the other rejected bills to include: Adeyemi Federal University of Education (Establishment) Bill, Federal University of Education Kano (Establishment) Bill, Alvan Ikoku Federal University of Education (Establishment) Bill, Federal University of Education Zaria (Establishment) Bill, National Security Agencies Protection of Officers Identity Bill, Federal Capital Territory Emergency Management Agency Bill, Environmental Managers Registration Council of Nigeria Bill, Defence Research and Development Bureau Bill, Animal Diseases Control Bill, Good Samaritans Bill and Chartered Institute of Directors of Nigeria Bill. Others are National Institute of Hospitality and Tourism (Establishment) Bill, Federal University Wukari (Establishment) Bill, Warehouse Receipt and other related matters Bill, Federal Capital Territory Health Insurance Agency Bill, Nigeria Film Commission Bill and Proceeds of Crimes Bill. Also, Enang listed the nine bills signed into law by the President to include the Nigeria Police Trust Fund (Establishment) Bill, Nigeria Natural Medicine Development Agency Bill, Suppression of Piracy and other Maritime Defences Bill, Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria Bill as well as National Institute of Construction Technology and Management (Establishment) Bill. The new laws also include: National Agricultural Seeds Council Act, Agricultural Credit Guarantee Scheme Fund (Amendment) Act, Federal Capital Territory Primary Heathcare Board (Establishment) Act and Federal Capital Territory Hospital Management Board (Establishment) Act.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja