The National Judicial Council (NJC) rose from an emergency meeting, Wednesday with a recommendation to President Muhammadu Buhari to appoint Justice Tanko Muhammad as the substantive Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). A statement by Soji Oye, Director, Information of the NJC, late Wednesday, said the meeting which was initially presided over by Justice Umaru Abdullahi, considered and approved the recommendation of its Interview Committee that screened the two candidates presented by the Federal Judicial Service Commission to it for appointment as Chief Justice of Nigeria. “Subsequently, the plenary of the Meeting presided over by the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Hon. Dr. Justice I. T. Muhammad, CFR, recommended to the Governors of Sokoto, Lagos, Anambra, Ebonyi, Niger, Taraba, Kano, and Jigawa States, eight (8) successful candidates for appointment as Chief Judges and Grand Kadis for the States,” the statement said. Those recommended are Hon. Justice Muhammad S. Sifawa (Sokoto); Hon. Mr. Justice Kazeem O. Alogba (Lagos); Hon. Justice Ijem Onwuamaegbu (Anambra) and i) Hon. Justice Nwaigwe A. Anselm (Ebonyi). Others include Hon. Mr. Justice Aliyu M. Mayaki (Niger); Hon. Justice Filibus B. Andetur (Taraba); and Grand Kadi, Sharia Court of Appeal, Kano, Hon. Tijjani Yusuf Yakasai. Also appointed was the Grand Kadi Sharia Court of Appeal for Jigawa, Hon. Kadi Isa Jibrin Gantsa. The statement explained that the newly appointed Heads of Courts will be sworn-in after the approval of the President and their respective State Governors and confirmation by the Senate and State Houses of Assembly, as the case may be. “Council at the meeting commended President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, for his unequivocal position on the financial autonomy for the States Judiciary and called on the various State Executives to as a matter of urgency, commence its immediate implementation. It posited that this is not only in line with the Constitutional dictates, but presently the Judicial position. “Council also considered notification of retirements of Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Chief Judges of Gombe, Edo, Niger, Ebonyi, Acting Chief Judge of Kebbi States as well as those of nine (9) other Judicial Officers from the Federal High Court, High Courts of Gombe, Delta, Edo, Imo, Benue and Katsina States,” the statement said.  Felix Omohomhion, Abuja