Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Monday, asked the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) to go beyond agitating for welfare of workers to proffering solutions to the nation’s economic challenges. Read More :  Okowa reiterates administration&#8217;s quest to diversify Delta economy Okowa spoke in Asaba when the President of the NLC, Ayuba Wabba led members of the union to pay him a congratulatory visit. He said that the country was in such a state that the cooperation of all was needed for the nation to succeed. “I think that when we get into national discourse, it is important for us to think nationally and to be able to offer our ideas to government”, he said, just as he expressed belief that no one people has all the answers. “There is a lot that the workers can actually bring to the table when it concerns national development; so, I want to plead that in the course of your engagement with government, beyond the issues of workers welfare, it is necessary to talk about Nigeria and its economy; it is important to offer solutions as to what you think can be done to make this country better.”
Continuing, he said, “It is our responsibility, our contributions and prayers that will help grow this nation far beyond where it is today,” He said hat despite the challenging in notes get country, he sees a bright future for the nation but said it is going to involve the collective will of all Nigerians to decide to stay committed to the nation and do their best to make her great. The governor who commended the NLC for the congratulatory visit, attributed most of the successes recorded by his administration to the cooperation of Deltans and the organised labour. Read More :  Okowa promises to pay workers new minimum wage The President of the NLC had said the congratulatory visit was necessary because of the friendly disposition of Governor Okowa to issues concerning workers. He told the governor that God would prepare the way as he (the governor) ensured prompt payment of salaries; the contributory health insurance scheme, which he said has made healthcare facilities available to workers. He also commended the governor for providing houses for workers, taking care of the needs of pensioners, among other things.