Ahead of the Tuesday resumption of the National Assembly, the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC has adopted Alhassan Ado-Doguwa, Doguwa/Tudun Wada Federal Constituency of Kano State for the position of Majority Leader of the House of Representatives. Ado-Doguwa who was the Chief Whip of the House in the 8th Assembly was adopted Monday after a meeting between the National Working Committee of APC and House of Representatives Members from Kano State. Prior to the adoption, Aminu Sulaiman, Member representing Fagge Federal Constituency of Kano State was also in the race for the position of the House Majority Leader and was said to be having the support of Adams Oshiomhole, APC National Chairman while Doguwa was been supported by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State. Oshiomhole while speaking at the meeting said, the position was zoned to Kano because of the large chunk of votes that APC garnered from the state in the 2019 general elections which enabled the party got victory and formed the federal government. The APC Leader also indicated that zoning of the position to Kano and adoption of Doguwa was in recognition of Governor Ganduje has contributed significantly to APC electoral successes and handle critical national assignments for the party. “This is a fact that nobody can wish away, it cannot be overemphasized by those numbers because politics is a game of numbers. It is those numbers that made us win the Presidency. Without that numbers, we won’t be in the office. Incidentally, I reflect between the President’s vote and the first runner up, Atiku. It is about 3.8 million. If you delete Kano votes from that, the votes will come down. If parts of those votes swing to the other side… so, no one can downplay the value of the support this party enjoys from the good people of Kano State as represented by you Honourables. “As we are having conversations, we have to ask ourselves, as a National Party, we do have obligations to try to reflect and ensure that the six geopolitical zones are well represented. In doing so, we recognize that if we are not in power, we will not be able to talk of representation. So, we cannot, even in doing that, downplay the role of numbers and so, it is based on this that we are having regards to sacrifices that other people have made. To whom much is given, much is expected, Kano has given us a lot as a party, has given a lot to our President and we must therefore reciprocate. “We also appreciate the leadership that governor Ganduje has provided. Not only in terms of governing Kano State but also his contribution to strengthen the APC. He has handled very sensitive national assignment for the party to help it conduct elections. His commitment to the party is not in doubt whatsoever. “This is the sentiment that formed the idea of zoning the leadership of the house to Kano and of course, you will also realise that the gentleman who happens to be my namesake as far as my collation goes, is the most senior ranking member in the house of representatives. By going with this tradition, people will realise the benefits of loyalty, consistency and of team spirit. When people learn from that, Nigerian democracy will mature much more. I have no doubt whatsoever”, he explained.  James Kwen, Abuja