Rainoil Limited, one of the leading integrated downstream oil and gas companies in Nigeria, has expanded its footprints to Ilorin, the Kwara State capital as well as in Gombe, the capital of Gombe State in north central and northeast Nigeria. This is in line with its expansion drive, according to information gleaned from its official portal sites.  The latest expansion drive by Rainoil is expected to drive commercial activities and create jobs, particularly as Nigeria is currently desirous of endeavours that can create employment opportunities for teeming Nigerian youths. “Rainoil announces its entry into Gombe and Kwara States as  it now operates in 17 states across Nigeria, with immediate plans to expand further into more states. The company expressed its satisfaction with its investments in these states, with hope that they would drive commercial activity, which will in turn, generate revenue and see indigenous members of the community provided with jobs,” it announced on its official portal. “We seek to create superior value by increasing market access, driving socio-economic development and providing easy access to quality products to our loyal customer-base across the country. With plans to further expand within both states and across the country, Rainoil currently operates over 71 service stations across the country with substantial market share across the entire downstream value chain of logistics, bulk storage, shipping and retail,” it explained. The two retail outlets were commissioned in the second quarter of 2019. Earlier, the firm also commissioned another retail outlet in Eket, Akwa Ibom State, which brought its stations in that state to three. According to information available on the company’s portals suggests that the concurrent opening of retail spaces is in line with the company’s aggressive retail roll-out agenda. The official announcement of the expansion agenda will come on the heels of the company’s commissioning of its multi-product depot at Ijegun, Lagos. Rainoil was incorporated in 1994 but began as a petroleum products marketing company in 1997. The company is into bulk storage, retail services, logistics and marine services.