Samsung Electronics has paved the way in innovative television technology with its launch of the first ever 8K QLED TV made available in the Nigerian market. The company which launched this top of the range innovation of Friday 28, June 2019 at its office in Ikoyi Lagos, also announced that its 2019 TV line- up which features more screen size options, stunning picture quality enhancements, sharp colours from every angle, new design elements and intuitive smart TV upgrades is now available to purchase at selected stores in Nigeria. “Our 2019 QLED line is designed for users who want the best combination of picture quality, smart TV capabilities and design,” said Dudu Mokholo, chief marketing officer at Samsung Central Africa. “This year’s line-up represents our largest screen size offering ever. It brings together innovative feature enhancements and exciting content and service partnerships to deliver a truly ground-breaking viewing experience and unprecedented value,” he said. The 2019 Q80 feature ‘Ultra Viewing Angle’ technology, which restructures the TV’s panels so the backlight passes through the panel with lights evenly onto the screen. Engineered to reduce glare and enhance colour, Ultra Viewing Angle provides a vibrant picture regardless of where you’re sitting. Q900 Series 8K TVs incorporate Samsung’s proprietary Quantum Processor 8K, which up-scales lower resolution content. Depending on the content, it can allow for playback close to crystal clear 8K resolution. This year’s models also utilise the Quantum Processor 8K that optimises audio and video to the specific content on the screen. It can create an even more detailed sound experience by tailoring the audio settings to the specific layout of the room. Samsung’s new QLED 4K models also feature their own proprietary Quantum Processor 4K, which can use AI upscaling to deliver improved brightness, picture quality and sound optimised for each scene. Samsung’s 2019 QLED range takes the user experience to the next level by offering iTunes Movies and TV Shows and Apple AirPlay 2 support. Remi Ogunsan, head, consumer electronics, Samsung Nigeria, said; “This is the real 8K resolution TV with 33 million pixels. It does so much more, because now you can mirror any smart device on the TV regardless of whether it is an Android or Apple device.” “Because of the growing trend in TV technology and the need for flexibility, Samsung has decided that our customers, especially in Nigeria expect more from their TV and this new 8K television will be available to all by the second week in July, through our partners like Simba and Technology Distribution (TD),” Ogunsan told BusinessDay. Using the new iTunes Movies and TV Shows app on Samsung Smart TVs,  JUMOKE AKIYODE-LAWANSON