Former Managing Director, Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Timi Alaibe has promised to create an enabling environment for job creation if elected in the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State. Alaibe gave the assurance in Abuja on Thursday when he picked his governorship Nomination and Expression of Interest forms at the Peoples Democratic Party National Secretariat. The governorship aspirant who started his aspiration to govern Bayelsa since 2003 said that he will consolidate on the achievements of the Seriake Dickson-led administration. He assured that he will ensure that infrastructure, education, health care and security will be given prioritized. According to him, “We are clear as to what we want to do in terms of our objectives. As a PDP state, we want to retain Bayelsa State. As such we are going to, as governor, consolidate on the good great work that our governor, Honourable Henry Seriake Dickson, has done so far in Bayelsa State. We are going to consolidate on his achievements, especially his work in areas of critical infrastructure in the education sector, health and other critical infrastructural projects”. He added that his administration will effectively convey social investment benefits to the state, make good use of Bayelsa coastlines and ensure that peace is restored in the state. He said: “For us as vision, we will espouse our belief of using government as a social investment platform in the implementation of social infrastructural projects in security, health and environment. But more importantly, we will espouse our interest in using government as an enabler for the maintenance of a peaceful and conducive environment to attract private sector capital, experience and strategy in implementing accelerated economic development. “We will utilise that in also implementing environmental projects to redeem ecological degradation in the Niger Delta. We will also be utilising that in implementing projects that have to do with tourism and some of the critical blue ocean projects, which are key to creation of jobs for our people and grow the economy of Bayelsa State. “It is critical that we utilise the advantage of having the longest coast line in Nigeria. That will change the economic landscape of our state”.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja