Seamfix, provider of identity management and data management solutions in Nigeria and Africa has been selectively recognised by the London stock exchange group (LSEG) as one of the companies to inspire Africa in 2019. In the second edition of the London stock exchange group report which identifies Africa’s most inspirational and dynamic private, high-growth companies who are inspiring the market in different ways, Seamfix’s growth rate and sector diversity where highlighted as a unique potential to transform the African and global economy and become world-class job creators for innovative individuals. This recognition echoes the vision of Seamfix, which is to provide platforms that enable and inspire millions of African businesses and people to achieve more daily. Today, know your customer (KYC) has become a major part of our everyday lives; the need to get clean and verifiable data of customers or clientele, the need to validate these collated data seamlessly and conveniently, and the mandate to do all these while strictly adhering to requirements by regulatory bodies. The Seamfix KYC solution offers an end-to-end data acquisition, identity management, on-the-go verification, and risk analysis for accelerated client on-boarding. It aims to empower leading organisations make informed data-driven decisions faster while simultaneously achieving a sustainable and compliant regulatory environment for the business and its customers. Chimezie Emewulu, the CEO of Seamfix, remarked on this great achievement saying; “We are humbled by this great recognition. This is beyond just an opportunity but a validation of the priceless efforts and sweat put into building Seamfix as a brand and our amazing products. Though this recognition has our name on it, in truth, it belongs to everyone who has made this a reality.” Chibuzor Onwurah, the co-founder and executive director of Seamfix, appreciated all Seamfix clientele, partners, and everyone who partook and currently partakes in the growth of the company. “This award is for all of us, including you, for your continuous efforts, utter trust, and contributions to our growth. We say a big thank you.” In commemoration, the London Stock Exchange Group has invited Seamfix to celebrate the launch of LSEG “Companies to Inspire Africa 2019” report in Lagos, Nigeria, hosted by PwC. The event would bring together the 122 companies featured in the 2017 and 2019 reports, thought leaders in Nigeria, financial advisors, capital market solicitors and more.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson 