Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Friday said the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has failed the people of the region as it had not been able to meet the expectations of the people. Osinbajo said this during a courtesy call at the palace of the Ebenanaowei of Ogulagha Kingdom, HRM, Joseph Timiyan I, in Obotobo, Burutu Council Area of Delta State. The Vice President lamented the inadequacy of the performances of the development agencies created to fill gaps in the region, promising to concentrate on the development of the region in the next four years. The vice president, who was in Delta State to perform some official assignments, including the 20.29km Obotobo 1- Obotobo 11 – Sokebolou – Yokri Road in Ogulagha Kingdom, Burutu Council Area and the Main Axial Road in Okerenkoko, Gbaramatu Kingdom in Warri South-West Council Area, said the Federal Government would sit with the state government to determine areas in need of development. “The NDDC in many respect has not met the expectations of the oil producing states; a lot of money is invested in NDDC and the Ministry of the Niger Delta because the real reason they were created is to speed up the development of oil-rich communities. We will sit with the Delta State Governor to look at specific areas to develop in the creeks,” he said. Meanwhile, while commissioning the road in Ogulagha Kingdom, the vice president said “I want to commend Governor Okowa for his achievements in a neighbourhood and area that has not had this type of road. “We commend him also on several other initiatives in this kingdom in particular, because this has been a very peaceful community and its a host to several of our oil and gas assets. “So, its really is a special pleasure to commission these roads and also thank His Royal Highness (Elder, Capt) Joseph Timiyan, who has maintained the peace in this neighbourhood and who has shown true leadership by the way he has conducted the affairs of this area”, he said. On his part, the Delta State governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, disclosed that the Vice President was invited to commission the projects because he visited the creeks in the pursuit of peace and the enabling environment for oil and gas production. “It is not just the length of the road that makes this project unique; it is that the road is located right beside the Atlantic Ocean with all the human, material, ecological and financial implications that this difficult terrain presents; we did not know we could get this length of road in the creak until the King drew our attention to it. “I am happy about the progress we have made so far; this has greatly helped to ensure peace in the State, which bodes well for uninterrupted oil production and the health of the national economy; we are continuing to use various structures and initiatives to ensure that the peace we have enjoyed in the last three years is sustained,” the governor said. Osibanjo also commissioned the phase 1 and II of Okerenkoko Township roads in Warri South West Council Area.