While we await the listing of Airtel shares on the Nigerian stock exchange (NSE) market following NSE’s official declaration of the stock’s listing date on Tuesday, information reaching BusinessDay from the exchange revealed that investors remain unresponsive. In contrast to the excitement witnessed and positions taken during the listing of MTN shares on the exchange, Paul Uzum, a Lagos based stock broker stated, “There are no excitement whatsoever towards Airtel’s shares, while price may pick up slightly we expect a reversal almost immediately.” “For foreign investors who are holding or bided for Airtel shares on the LSE, they may want to cash out in Nigeria upon listing hence reduce the extent of their lost since it’s a dual listing,” Ologunro stated. Recall, concerns were raised over the possibility that investors perceive a threat to future earnings of the company on the back of an issue which isn’t sufficient enough to improve the finance cost of the firm, hence hinder anticipated returns. Airtel Africa, a unit of India’s Bharti Airtel Ltd, last week set a price range of N363-N454 per share for its IPO on the NSE where it aims to issue 501 million to 716 million new shares and selling about 500 million shares on the London stock exchange (LSE) market with 10 percent over allotment option. The proposed listing of Airtel is said to imply a TTM EV/EBITDA multiple of 6.3x – 6.8x, implying that for every N1 EBITDA made investors are willing to pay between N6.3 to N6.8 own the shares. Airtel had claimed it planned to raise $750 million, despite highly leveraged with a debt-equity ratio of 2.0x and an outstanding debt obligation of about $3 billion. This means that its debt obligation when shares are fully subscribed to will drop to about $2.25 billion while debt to equity to about 1.7x. Meanwhile investors’ reactions witnessed on the London stock exchange market (LSE) is believed to signal a likely behaviour with Nigeria’s high net worth individuals (HNI) and institutional investors towards Airtel shares. Also the Nigeria equity market currently is still being weighed on by investors’ negative sentiments which have seen top 3 of the most capitalized stocks on the exchange trade at almost their 1-year low values. “The market currently isn’t looking good now and investors are cautious,” Paul Uzum stated. More details later…