The Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) has lauded the Senate over the immediate commencement of screening of ministerial nominees. BMO stated that the harmonious relationship between the President and the National Assembly is crucial in order to deepen democracy and foster national development. In a statement signed by its Chairman, Niyi Akinsiju and Secretary, Cassidy Madueke, Thursday, BMO noted that the tremendous support being enjoyed by the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan from his colleagues is a testimony to his strong leadership quality, and his willingness to carry everyone along, irrespective of party affiliations. According to the statement, “The 9th Assembly has so far demonstrated to the entire nation what selfless service and unity of purpose can achieve, in sharp contrast with the 8th Assembly which thrived on hostage-taking of budgets and bills, as well as foot-dragging in confirmation of appointments. This is how to grow Nigeria. “The 9th Assembly led by Ahmed Lawan is a clear departure from the Bukola Saraki-led 8th Senate that was nothing short of a disaster when we look at the desired relationship between the Executive and National Assembly needed for national development. “The Saraki-led Senate turned governance into a personal vendetta mission. Saraki’s personal ambition to become President of Nigeria blinded his obligation to Nigeria, thus he sought every opportunity to pose himself a clog in the wheels of governance. Saraki dragged Nigeria back at every opportunity he had”. The group further noted that the immediate commencement of the screening of the ministerial nominees was a testament that Lawan was one hundred percent APC in character and principle.
“Now we can boast that indeed the APC is leading the National Assembly not a stooge who has one leg in and one leg out; now we would be certain that critical bills and screening of President’s nominees would be treated with respect and immediacy.” BMO urged other government institutions to borrow a leaf from this character of the new National Assembly while working hand-in-hand with President Buhari to take Nigeria to the ‘Next Level’. Meanwhile, the group has cautioned the Yoruba Socio-cultural group, Afenifere, to work with the Federal Government and security agencies to contain insecurity in the country, rather than issuing statements that are capable of escalating the situation or inciting people to violence.
The group gave the advice in reaction to a statement by Afenifere warning those it described as killer herdsmen to leave the South-Western part of the country or risk reprisal attacks. The group expressed utmost disappointment with the utterances of Afenifere and other groups on the security situation in the country, stressing that such comment was capable of instigating chaos and violence. The group noted that the Buhari administration had in a bid to improve the security of lives and property in the country commenced the recruitment of 10,000 policemen, sending serving police officers for training at home and abroad. According to the group, “First of all, as we have said before, it is wrong to ascribe criminality to a particular tribe or group of persons, as this is capable of exacerbating the situation. We want to remind Afenifere and others that criminality is not restricted to any group and security challenges are also prevalent in the most advanced countries of the world. “We are of the firm belief that under the circumstances we find ourselves that all well-meaning Nigerians, especially leaders of thought, ought to lend a helping hand to enable the Federal Government tackle the security problems holistically. “Even in the midst of the security challenges, we are aware that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration has remained focused at solving the problems whenever and wherever they occur.”  Iniobong Iwok