In the wave of the rising economic problems confronting African continent ,Nigeria’s former Minister of Finance and the Cordinating Minister of the Economy,Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala,on Monday called on African leaders to evolve policies that would ensure that it’s curriculum prepare young Africans according to the demands of the job of the future. The former Nigerian Minister, who doubles as the chairman of the Board of the African University of Science and Technology made the submission during the 8th Graduation ceremony of the University. Iweala who noted that Africa’s demographic advantage of young people is a key head start‎,however observed that young Africans must be prepared with the right analytical skills to adapt and embrace the job of the future. “First of all‎,the demographics of Africa where in contrast to Asia,where 25% or more of the population is 65 years and older is an advantage .Conversely,in Africa ,6% of our population only would be 65 years and older.The implication is that we have young demography, the productivity and the capability to be more productive that we are. “What kind of education and skills are we giving to our young people,to enable them compete? Are they being trained to be analytical-not just memorising and repeating what they learnt in the book but to think critically and analytically.This is currently what we are doing in the African University of Science and Technology . The former Minister,on the other hand noted that:”Having high demography is kot enough,they must be trained,have the right skills in Science and Technology. You see,we are educating them in computer science, data science,Artificial intelligence,which is the wave of the future.If we have people like these everywhere,they would propel Africa forward.” Affirming further her stance that Africa is the continent for the future,she said,”Currently ,six out of the 10 fastest growing economies in the world are in Africa. Ethiopia,Rwanda,Ghana, Coted’Ivore,Senegal,are doing very well. Hopefully,Nigeria and South Africa would soon join them because they are the biggest economies of the continent.” Making key suggestions on way forward,she said:”Before I talk of government policies let me mention to you, Silicon Valley-It started in a Valley with a few Universities like Stamford,and others comprising of a few brainy people starting Microsoft,Apple and so on.” “African University of Science and Technology is a centre of excellence and an incubator,and we have to support that.Of course,we need the right policies to run.One of the encouragement when I speak African wise is that some government’s are actually pursuing the right
policies.If you go to for instance Rwanda,you will be amazed with what you see-A whole infrastructure has been laid for technology and for
the African of the future. Charlles Ejike Chidume-a professor and the Acting President of the University in his earler remarks noted that the African University of Science and Technology was established by the Nelson Mandela Institution,(NMI) as one of the Universities located in the Sub-Saharan African region where young talented Africans from the sub-region can come to obtain one of the finest education in the African continent. Some of the research work going on at the University is directed to probles peculiar to the sub-region:water purification,energy,special type of cancer prevalent in our sub-region,building materials among others. ‎The University notably at this 8th convocation ceremony saw the graduation of 89 students with four students from Post graduate diploma,82 students graduated with Masters of science in Computer science,Materials Science and Engineering,Petroleum Engineering,as
well as pure and applied mathematics. The University also graduated seven students with Doctors of Philosophy in Petroleum Engineering,Pure and applied mathematics, as well as theoretical and applied physics.  HARRISON EDEH,ABUJA