The acceptability of Methyl Bromide in Nigeria as a fumigant for agricultural produce is reigniting debate on the contentious subject as the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has re-stated that the chemical remains banned in Nigeria. This follows previous announcement of ban from the agency, which was subsequently countered by the Nigerian Agricultural Quarantine Service (NAQS). In a new statement issued today by the office of Moji Adeyeye, director general of NAFDAC, the agency says its attention “has been drawn to an upsurge in the demand for methyl bromide from Nigeria.” The surge in demand, according to the statement, is sequel to the new requirement of the government of some countries, such as Mexico and India, that methyl bromide must be used as fumigant on the agricultural produce being exported to their countries. “The use of Methyl Bromide as fumigant is banned and remains banned in Nigeria,” the statement read. “Farmers, agro input dealers and exporter of Agricultural produce are advised to use alternative pesticides which are safer, cheaper and more effective.” This decision according to NAFDAC is hinged on exposure that may occur during fumigation activities. Effects of this exposure according to NAFDAC are drawn from studies in humans, which indicate that the lung may be severely injured by the acute (short-term) inhalation of methyl bromide. Acute and chronic (long-term) inhalation of methyl bromide can lead to neurological effect in humans, NAFDAC says. However, Vincent Isegbe, director general of NAQS in a phone interview to clarify the development, expressed the view that NAFDAC is overstepping its mandate. According to Isegbe, there are exemptions for the use of Methyl Bromide, and these include when it is used as a chemical in feedstuff; uses that the parties of the Montreal protocol deem “critical” under certain classifications by parties to the protocol and lastly; use for Quarantine and Pre-shipment (QPS). While the NAFDAC statement highlights that the use of methyl bromide was banned by Montreal Protocol of 1987 due to its effect on ozone layer depletion property, Isegbe says this falls under the purview of the National Ozone Office, domiciled in the Ministry of Environment. But according to NAFDAC, even though Methyl Bromide has continued to receive critical uses exemption from other countries since 1987. From the documented abuse and misuse of other agrochemicals in Nigeria, the risks of use of Methyl Bromide will outweigh the benefit for critical use, NAFDAC asserts. Isegbe, on NAQS’ part, explained to BusinessDay that letters and documents have been sent to NAFDAC, in order to provide clarity on the issue, but these have mostly gone unanswered. “We still wrote a letter to them in May, but there has been no response till today,” said Isegbe, who expressed displeasure at what he describes as lack of cooperation with his agency, both of which work for the same government.  CALEB OJEWALE