Lagos, Nigeria, Jul 8, 2019 – GreenHouse Capital in collaboration with Vibranium Valley and
Google Launchpad Africa is now accepting applications for the second cohort of its accelerator
program – GreenHouse Lab. GreenHouse Lab, launched in 2018, is Nigeria’s first female focused
tech accelerator. GHL is looking for brilliant start-ups that are either female-led or female
focused and have an aspiration to scale across African markets. After an incredibly successful inaugural cohort, the program has expanded to offer an even
more exciting suite of benefits including:
• A global cross-industry investor, corporate partner, and mentorship network
• Access to products and resources from GreenHouse Capital partners, including Google
Launchpad
• An intensive curriculum delivered by Google mentors and industry experts
• The opportunity to work out of Vibranium Valley, Lagos, Nigeria’s premier tech hub
• Ecosystem engagement (through networking sessions and roadshows
• The potential to receive a minimum of 100K USD investment from GreenHouse Capital
for startups that qualify and meet our investment readiness criteria (this excludes other
offers that may come from our global network of investors). Speaking on the program, Ruby Nimkar, Principal at GreenHouse Capital, said “More than ever,
the spotlight is on the African tech scene and we are seeing the far-reaching impact on the
global technology ecosystems. Even as Africa continues to churn out these impressive start-ups,
the focus should be on ensuring they are sustainable through mentorship, investment, and
scalable growth models”.   Founders can apply for the 2019 GreenHouse Lab accelerator program by setting up a venture
profile on the VC4Africa platform and uploading their most recent pitch deck. Applications close
August 4, 2019. The three-month accelerator begins in mid-August and ends mid-November.
Selected start-ups will be required to commit to the program in Lagos. The program will
conclude with a Demo Day where the startups will present their ideas to a curated audience of
global investors, entrepreneurs, corporates, and media. For more information, please contact:
Joshua Ebinabo
Email: lab@greenhouse.capital