Perhaps, regarded as one of the finest journalists of his generation, Olusegun Osoba, a former governor of Ogun, last Monday clocked the golden age of 80. Born in July 1939, Osoba, has moved from one platform to another. He was a newsroom man, then he decided to adorn the politician’s flowing “babaringa”, mounted the soapbox on a number of times to solicit votes; now he is a statesman and has becoming a rallying point of the younger generation of politicians. He is today a major political gladiator, a power broker in the Southwest, and presently a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). He is a celebrated journalist who had a robust career in the profession spanning decades. He started his career in journalism in 1964, working with the Daily Times as a trainee reporter covering crime. By 1966, he was the diplomatic correspondent of the Times, becoming the news editor in 1968, deputy editor of the Sunday Times in 1971 and deputy editor of the Daily Times in 1972. In August 1975, he became the Editor of the Daily Times of Nigeria, before leaving the firm in November 1975 to take up appointment as a general manager of the Ilorin-based Nigerian Herald. He returned to Daily Times in 1984 as the managing director. Part of the activities marking his 80th birthday, last Monday was the launch and public presentation of his memoir, titled: ‘Battle line: Adventures in Journalism and Politics’, which was published by Diamond Publication Limited. The public presentation of the book was attended by Nigerians from all walks of life, including his political associates. Over the last two decades, Osoba has remained a major political figure in the Southwest politics and indeed Ogun, his home state. For many indigenes of the state, he is perhaps, the modern father of Ogun State, due to his outstanding achievements and infrastructural development across the state during his tenure as governor between 1999-2006. Perhaps, a major political move he would live to savour all his lifetime was the decision to team up with his political associate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu to form the APC in 2014, a party which later, defeated the then ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in nationwide general election to emerge the ruling party. Osoba remains an icon in Ogun State, the Southwest and indeed Nigeria. In his tribute to him, former military head of state, Ibrahim Babangida, described him as a detribalised Nigerian, essentially cosmopolitan, octogenarian, suave, urbane, cerebral
Seasoned and profoundly accomplished journalist. He saluted Osoba’s professional sagacity and applauded his knack for unraveling the unknown and excelled in journalism at a time when technology was still a huge challenge. “It is always gratifying to know how time flies on this putrid plane. How, just like yesterday, you have clocked four scores at a time when life expectancy in Nigeria stands at 54. “At 80, it stands tall. At 80, it shows remarkable footnotes in your trajectory through life’s bramble forest. You can chronicle an unedited story of the Nigerian federation in such an elegant prose that distinguished your reportorial skills in those good old days. At 80, I know you still possess your writing skill that made your pen worthy of mention each time we met.” “Even as military officers, we had good company with our ‘bloody’ civilians who complimented our network. Chief Osoba was one of such ‘civilian generals’ who knew so well how to cultivate friendship and derive happiness from seemingly gloomy situation. He has a knack for unraveling the unknown.” According to him, “Osoba remains to me as one of the most patriotic Nigerians I have come across in my sojourn in life. You are not only brutally frank when it comes to speaking your mind, your courage and ability to speak truth to power are an eloquent distinction of your persona”. There were other numerous eulogies that space will not permit their reproduction here. But in all, they were all in agreement that Aremu Olusegun Osoba is indeed, a good man.  Iniobong Iwok