In a bid to boost planting production in the country, a group that promotes food production in the country is set to host the third edition of Nigeria’s ‘Bole Festival’ to promote plantain farming and the rich food heritage of the Niger Delta people. The Bole Festival which is currently the biggest food festival in the south that attracted over 8,000 lovers of food from across the country is aimed at celebrating the rich heritage of the Niger Delta through food. The emphasis is on the various creative ways ‘bole’ is prepared with fish, making it the most popular street food in the region. Bole which is a street food in Nigeria made from plantain is usually served in different ways depending on the region. In places like Port Harcourt & Bayelsa and most cities in the south-south region, it is often served with pepper sause, roasted fish, with yam or potato by the side, while in Akwa Ibom you can have it served with roasted chicken and a special sauce. “We expect another successful and fun filled event that will also set the standard in highlighting the importance of celebrating our culture and local cuisine,” said Kennedy Chinonso Iwuh, organiser of the event in a press statement made available to BusinessDay. “Bole Festival has grown in prestige and attendance over the years. This year we want to the event to represent that growth in creativity in terms of market appeal as a brand while maintaining the casual fun atmosphere that has endeared us to the people,” Iwuh said. There will be food exhibitors in attendance to showcase and sell diverse Bole and fish meals as well as side attractions, such as music performances, comedy, food competitions, indoors and out-door games with prices to be won and fun and game activities for kids, the organisers say. According to the organisers, beyond the food exhibition, the festival has a strong urban appeal that attracts adults of all ages, small and medium sizes businesses and sponsors from all industries, all coming together to celebrate this local meal. Since the inception of the first edition of the Bole Festival in 2016, the organisers of the festival has offered free vendor space as a means to give back and empower local street food sellers, there by giving them an opportunity to show case their creativity with the Bole, gain clients and increase monthly sales by over 200 percent on the day of the festival. The festival now offers over 200 stall spaces for small businesses to display and sell their goods on the day of the event. This year’s Bole festival themed; ‘Our taste, Our Culture’ and it is stated to hold on the 3rd of August in Port-Harcourt.  Josephine Okojie