Imagine being able to bring your ideas to life with cutting edge technology that allows you to interact directly with data, and create potential solutions for your business challenges. KPMG, a leading professional services firm globally and in Nigeria is pushing the frontier of business technology through its Insight Centre. KPMG in Nigeria has announced the opening of the KPMG Insights Centre in Lagos, the firm’s first and foremost Digital Centre designed to provide digital solutions to its clients to become more competitive in the industry. The Centre which is located at the KPMG Tower in Lagos, Nigeria, leverages the firm’s collective capabilities across signal sensing, design thinking, data and analytics, Artificial Intelligence (AI), digital transformation, strategy, business process and technology to bring greater efficiency and competitive advantage to businesses. According to Kunle Elebute, Senior Partner, KPMG in Nigeria and Chairman, KPMG Africa, KPMG is constantly focused on making strategic short and long-term investments that address market disruption and support a transformation journey. “The KPMG Insights Centre helps us to bring together our capabilities in innovation, facilitation and leading/ emerging technologies in a new way that represents how KPMG is transforming businesses across the industry and how we can help our clients succeed,” He said. At the event graced by business leaders, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, owner of the Dangote Group, who said the group is targeting 30 billion dollars revenue from its current 4 billion dollars, expressed his delight in the KPMG innovation. “This will assist in our own businesses by predicting our customer behaviour and our operations in various industries because we have a lot of industries that are very complex, but this will help sort out our issues and help us run our businesses,” he said. Jim Ovia, chairman and founder of Zenith Bank also expressed satisfaction with the KPMG Insight Centre. “We are very impressed with the AI (Artificial Intelligence) and the innovations, and we do think that’s the future, and many organisations will look forward to partnering with KPMG in this regard,” Ovia said. The Insight platform allows businesses capitalize on emerging disruptive technologies like artificial intelligence, blockchain, cloud, augmented/ virtual reality and platform business models to strategically evolve their business models, financial models and operating models, and design technology solutions that can support their organizational needs. “Businesses make decisions based on intuition but data would help them reinvent themselves ahead of the curve and survive today’s digital world,” Elebute. The KPMG Insights Center in Lagos, Nigeria, incorporates: Insights Center: A state-of-the-art facility to showcase the art of the possible using data and analytics, artificial intelligence and digital capabilities. Companies can engage in real-time data exploration, scenario testing, and prototype development for big data systems, data visualization, machine learning, predictive analytics, and optimization. Innovation Lab: KPMG Innovation Labs detect and interpret signals of change from an outside-in perspective. Using proprietary research and tools, customer insights, and robust analysis capabilities, KPMG applies design thinking for business model innovation, enabling our clients to synthesize new outlooks and translate complex signals into actions. Technology Solutions: Collaborate with leading technology firms to drive transformational outcomes through innovation. The integrated teams of data scientists, developers, engineers, technologists and business specialists support a vast array of enabling solutions including customer, risk, financial and HR analytics, cybersecurity, tax transformation and technology, robotics and process automation, and other data-driven capabilities. The Living Room: A mindful space with exquisite finishing, and an executive innovative space for person-to-person interactions, and a coffee bar. According to Olumide Olayinka, KPMG Partner & Lead, Data and Analytics and Innovation, the Insight Centre “Data is going to give businesses insights on how issues are interrelated and make timely decisions” Olayinka also promised more firsts from KPMG in addition to the data asset it is pioneering in Africa. The KPMG Nigeria Insights Centre is part of KPMG’s global data and analytics initiative. Insights Centres are located in 16 other international cities around the world including Chicago, New York, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, London, Milan, Paris, Sydney, Tokyo, Melbourne, Tel Aviv, Madrid and a few other cities across the world.  SEGUN ADAMS