The United Bank for Africa (UBA) has classified CWG Plc as an outstanding vendor in its Vendor’s Performance Evaluation exercise for the year 2018 covering July to December. In a letter titled ‘UBA Vendor Performance Evaluation Review-Letter of Commendation’ and signed by both; Opeoluwa Okosun, assurance manager and Eugene Inotu, head, Assurances, UBA noted that CWG plc performed outstandingly in the process review, with particular emphasis on some key performance indicators such as Responsiveness/Delivery Timeline, Quality of Products/Services, Price Reasonableness and Compliance with UBA Plc Policy, the prestigious bank rated CWG ‘outstanding’. “Kindly be informed that your Company’s performance during the period under review was rated Outstanding. We use this medium to thank you for the continued service to UBA Plc and look forward to a continuous mutually beneficial relationship,” part of the letter reads. The bank added that it instituted the bi-annual vendors ‘evaluation exercise, which allows to evaluates its vendors performance level as it relates to the services provided and customer satisfaction.It added that it has repeatedly communicated its expectations and commitment for an efficient and objective vendor management system/process in various forums and occasions. CWG Plc’s Service Delivery Team and the entire Management are indeed elated at this Commendation as it shows that the expertise and commitments of the organisation to excellence were yielding the desired results. This commendation was particularly on the expertise shown by CWG on its ATM Support process for UBA. Adewale Adeyipo, acting group CEO/MD – CWG; immediately communicated his appreciation to the entire team for all their efforts, wrapping up his note to them in the words of Colin Powel, saying excellence is not an exception, it is a prevailing attitude. That is the Attitude of the CWG of today, as we continually deploy technology solutions that enable growth for our clients and the economies, we operate in. Excellence is therefore the prevailing Attitude at CWG. CWG Plc is the largest Systems Integration Company, operating out of four African Countries; Nigeria, Ghana, Uganda and Cameroon.  MODESTUS ANAESORONYE