The Federal government has approved the Statements of Qualification (SOQs) Evaluation Report presented by the Inter-Ministerial Committee of the Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialization Programme (NGFCP). Folasade Yemi-Esan, the Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Petroleum resources gave the information while she also informed each applicant on the Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme (NGFCP) will receive an email while successful applicants will attain Qualified Applicant status in line with the design of the Request for Qualification,(RfQ )and will subsequently be invited to submit their proposal for flare gas utilisation through the Request for Proposals (RfP) phase of the NGFCP. ‎Recall, over 850 interested parties registered their interest in the NGFCP while 238 Applicants submitted Statement of Qualification (SOQs) in response to the Request for Qualification (RfQ) published by the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR). The Permanent Secretary in a statement signed by Justice Derefaka, the Programme manager, Nigeria Gas Flare Commercialisation programme said : “A total of 238 SOQ documents were evaluated in accordance with the provisions of applicable Regulations, Guidelines, Standard DPR Practices for bid evaluation, and were adjudged either a ‘Pass’ or ‘Fail’ status. “Following a rigorous exercise conducted in line with established protocol and using the Electronic Evaluation Tool (EET), 205 Applicants emerged successful (attaining a ‘pass status’) while the remaining 33 Applicants did not meet the minimum requirements and thus attained ‘fail status’. She noted further that: “The PEC in the next stage, which is the Request for Proposals (RfP), will evaluate proposals submitted by the Qualified Applicants (QAs) to determine those Bidders that achieve Preferred Bidder (PB) and Reserved Bidder (RB) status in line with the criteria of the Request for Proposal (RfP) package. Ahead of the Request for Proposal stage, an NGFCP Qualified Applicants’ Workshop is scheduled to hold soon. She clarified further that those that have not been successful would also be advised through the NGFCP portal. “However, unsuccessful applicants still have a chance to participate in the NGFCP (subject to acceptance by the Consortium) for them to join a Consortium that has been successful in the Request for Qualification (RfQ) process. Please note that the arrangement of unsuccessful applicants to join a consortium is not the responsibility of the NGFCP,” she said.  HARRISON EDEH, ABUJA 