Halogen Group formerly known as Halogen Security Company Limited unveiled along with the emergence of six operating companies created to offer core expertise in distinct areas of security risk solutions. The new Halogen Group designed to provide integrated, end to end security solutions to enterprise clients and individual consumers alike, is established to comprehensively address emerging complexities of security risks resulting from the dominance of technology and digital connectivity in today’s lifestyles and businesses. In a statement ushering in Halogen’s transformation, the company’s Group Managing Director and CEO, Wale Olaoye explained that the very nature of security risks have fundamentally changed due to a new openness of society linked to the evolution of digital technologies. He further explained that in today’s world, the borders between physical and virtual spaces and the distinctions between tangible and non-tangible assets have disappeared and everyone is now exposed, compounding security risks and anxieties. Offering a value proposition of Safety in an Open World, the new Halogen Group stated that helping ensure safety in an open and continuously volatile world, and helping people combat increasing levels of anxiety define its reason for being. Explaining that when individuals and businesses feel safe and anxieties related to security are eliminated or reduced, every human being feels empowered to pursue the achievement of their personal goals and life purpose. For this reason, the statement added, Halogen has defined its reason for being in a 3 pronged promise namely: forestall threats, mitigate anxiety and thereby empower achievement. The Group’s new companies launched are: Avert Halogen, a digitally connected remote surveillance & monitoring solutions company; Avant Halogen, identity management, risk consulting and resourcing focused company; PS Halogen, manned guarding and event management; Armour X Halogen, a virtual and cyber security company; Armada Halogen, secured Mobility company and Academy Halogen, Halogen School of Security Management & Technology institution. The unveiling event had in attendance top multinational businesses across different sectors of the economy, regulatory agencies, industry associates, investors and a cross section of Halogen leaders and staff, including its founder and Chairman, Troyka Group, Biodun Shobanjo. In a key note address at the occasion, Jimi Awosika, a noted thought leadership personality and Group CEO of Troyka Holdings, Halogen’s parent company, described universal digital connectivity and the openness it brings as the greatest disruption to the dynamics of life and business in recent history. According to him, Halogen’s successes in its first 27 years provides clients and consumers faith in the brand that it will deliver on its promise of safety in an open world. Also speaking on the successful launch of the transformed Halogen Group, Olaoye said: “Today, management and Staff of Halogen are excited to witness the birth of the new Halogen Group. Today’s epoch making event signaled the beginning of a new journey to lead the change again in Nigeria’s security industry. For nearly three decades, we have had the honor of being trusted by a vast majority of Nigeria’s top businesses, public organizations and individuals, as their preferred security risk solutions provider. Their trust and their satisfaction with our differentiated solutions delivery approach have made us Nigeria’s and indeed, West Africa’s most sought after Security Company. “With Halogen’s transformation, we are yet again staying true to our tradition and heritage of innovation leadership.” Listing the 3 strategic pillars of Halogen’s transformation as Knowledge Technology and Response, Olaoye noted further that, with the transformation, Halogen has invested aggressively in developing the infrastructure and tools necessary to meet the security needs of consumers in today’s post digital world. 