The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Wednesday, disclosed that less than 50  domestic and foreign observer groups have submitted their reports on the 2019 general elections According to INEC only 42 domestic observer groups have submitted their reports representing only 26% of the 120 accredited groups that observed the last polls across the country. Mahmood Yakubu, INEC Chairman made these revelations at a meeting of the Electoral Body with Civil Society Organizations, CSOs on the review of the 2019 general elections in Abuja. Yakubu noted that a critical component of the requirements for accreditation of observers is the submission of reports and recommendations in the format provided for in Chapter 5 of the Commission’s guidelines for election observation. He therefore appealed to all accredited observers both domestic and foreign to submit their reports in earnest so that the Commission can aggregate their cumulative recommendations in its ongoing evaluation of the 2019 General Election. Yakubu acknowledged that the collaboration between INEC and CSOs, especially since 2010 has positively influenced the reform of the electoral process and appreciated their commitment over the years to deepening Nigeria’s democracy. “Not only have you been working with the Commission, you have also been partners in promoting necessary reforms to strengthen electoral integrity in Nigeria. “As an open forum for CSOs, the Commission has formulated three main areas of focus for discussion at this meeting intended to: Identify successes in the 2019 General Elections with a view to consolidating and sustaining them. “Highlight operational issues and challenges and making recommendations for addressing these in future elections; and identify critical areas for legal and administrative reforms, among others. “It is our hope that today’s conversation with civil society will strengthen our collaboration and assist us in working towards an improved electoral system for Nigeria”, he said. The INEC Chairman assured CSOs that all their recommendations which require administrative action by the Commission will be given expeditious consideration beginning with the Bayelsa and Kogi Governorship elections while it will work with them on areas requiring legislation by the National Assembly or further action outside the Commission’s immediate mandate. Earlier, Mustapha Lecky, INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Planning, Monitoring and Strategic Committed said the aim of the review was to comprehensively evaluate the conduct of the 2019 General Elections and learn vital lessons that would allow the Commission the opportunity to review its policies and programmes during the last general elections, and serve as a roadmap to 2023 general elections. “It is in this regard that the Commission has been meeting with various stakeholders as part of this comprehensive SWOT analysis; involving identification of our strengths, performances, weaknesses or lapses, opportunities missed or taken, as well as impediments, bottlenecks and/or threats uncovered across all the processes before, during and the fallouts since the conduct of the 2019 general elections. “The entire review exercise will be concluded with the preparation, validation and publication of the INEC Report on the 2019 General Elections as part of INEC’s accountability to Nigerians. The Commission is considering a series of Town-Hall platforms to engage a wider Nigeria audience on the 2019 General elections”, he stated. While calling on CSOs to make valuable inputs that would improve future elections, Lecky said, “CSOs fulfill important duties of checks and balances in democracies, and are able to influence and hold government entities, such as INEC accountable”. Ekaette Umoh, President National Association of Persons with Disabilities who spoke on behalf of CSOs commended INEC for always carrying them along in its activities and programmes aimed at improving Nigeria’s electoral process and assured the Commission of the inputs of CSOs in review of the 2019 general elections with view to make recommendations that would enhance the credibility of future polls.