John Odigie-Oyegun, immediate past National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has slammed his successor, Adams Oshiomhole, over the ignoble role he is playing in fuelling the crisis in Edo State Chapter of the party. Oyegun, apparently reacting to the recent outburst and indictment by Governor Godwin Obaseki and the House of Representatives ad-hoc Committee, said he is yet to come to terms on why Oshiomhole has easily forgotten that he never interfered in Edo State affairs as the National Chairman of the party while he (Oshiomhole) was the Governor. The former APC National Chairman in a statement issued by his Public Affairs Adviser, Ray Murphy, wondered why Oshiomhole has failed to realised that Governor Obaseki should be supported as the only APC Governor in the South-South geopolitical zone rather than vilifying and destabilising his administration. The former Governor of Edo State, expressed shock on why Oshiomhole is blatantly and brazenly engaging in an anti party to the extent that the party in Edo is now riven with confusion and division. He also wondered why a man who claimed to have buried godfatherism in Edo state politics could play God and become an agent of disruption in the smooth running of the state government. The APC Chieftain urged the Progressive Governors not to stand aside and watch their fellow Governor being hampered by a party Chairman whose actions may lead to political misfortune of the party. “The recent outburst by Governor Obaseki and the report by the House of Representatives ad-hoc committee, indicting the current National Chairman of the APC, have confirmed my earlier claim that Oshiomhole is not only the architect but also responsible for fuelling the crisis in Edo state. “In the face of these confirmations, I want to urge Oshiomhole to stop disgracing the ruling party and the good people of Edo state. I wonder how he could easily forget that I never interfered or bothered about how he ran the government as the then governor of Edo state all the while I occupied the position of the party’s National chairman. “I am yet to come to terms why it has become difficult for Oshiomhole to realise that Governor Obaseki is the only APC governor in the entire South-south and should be allowed to concentrate in giving the people of Edo the dividend of democracy. “It is shocking that a man who boastfully claimed to have buried godfatherism in the Edo state politics could become enmeshed in playing God to his successor. Oshiomhole is not only guilty of godfatherism but also guilty of anti-party activities considering the ignorable role he has been playing and his shameful involvement in the whole Edo crisis. “Rather than dissipating energy in fomenting more crises, Oshiomhole should rather concentrate in ensuring that the federal government policies conform with the party’s manifesto and campaign promises to the good people of this country. “I appeal to him once more to stop disgracing the governing party APC and Edo state. He should give the governor a breeding space to concentrate in doing the job of serving the people of Edo state.
“I want to also appeal to the Progressives Governors not to stand aside and watch their fellow governor hampered by a party chairman whose actions may lead to political misfortune of the party in the state,” Oyegun warned. Simon Ebegbulem, Chief Press Secretary to the APC National Chairman when contacted declined comment on weighty allegations against his principal, insisting that Oyegun as a respected leader of the party would have properly addressed his successor rather resorting to press statements. “I have no comment. Chief Oyegun is a respected leader of the party and an elder statesman. Comrade Oshiomhole has so much respect for him. If he really want to address Oshiomhole he can come out openly to address the man who succeeded him in office and not one Murphy”, Ebegbulem stated.  James Kwen, Abuja