China businesses have continued to expand to Africa with Nigeria as first destination because of the Nigeria’s  big market. The latest is Xiaomi Corporation, a Chinese electronics company headquartered in Beijing. Attracted by Nigeria’s market, the company which invests in smartphones, mobile apps, laptops among other products recently launched two smart phones in Lagos; the devices which it says will assist businesses in their operation. The company founded in April 2010  and it’s currently the 4th in global smartphone market, introduced Mi 9T, the latest smartphone in its highly popular flagship Mi 9 family for upward mobile Nigerian consumers and Redmi 7A for average class consumers. Mi 9T has 6.39-inch full screen display and has a 20MP pop-up front camera and a rear 48MP triple camera setup. The phone also comes with pressure gorilla glass and holographic back cover. It sells for N119.500. The company marketing director, Shomoye Habib told BusinessDay that the phone comes with speed processor. “Mi 9T features the best-in-class Qualcomm SnapdragonTM 730 mobile platform, offering an increase of 35 percent for CPU performance, and of 10 percent for GPU, as well as twice the AI performance, compared to its predecessor SnapdragonTM 710– all enabled an octa-core KryoTM 470 chip processor based on the 8nm process for extreme power efficiency, along with the 4th generation AI smart engine for delivering powerful AI performance”. The smartphone comes with the new Game Turbo 2.0 for an ultimate gaming experience by optimizing touch response, display, sound quality, network and in-game calls. It also features a large 4000mAh battery and an AI energy saving mode to automatically adjust screen brightness and for activating sleep mode at night, Mi 9T has power to last through a day of heavy use, says Shomoye Habib,  at the launching of the phones in Lagos. He said the Redmi 7A has quality design and good battery that can last for 19 days standby. It also comes with good camera. The phones sells for N33,500. He said all the phones are of global version. Shomoye further said that the Xiaomi has come to Nigeria to assist businesses and to create value for them.  Daniel Obi