A political group, the Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) has called for the investigation of Imo Ugochinyere of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) over his statement seeking to compel the judiciary to do his group’s bidding and declare the Presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the last election, Atiku Abubakar as President of Nigeria. The BMO said the statement WAs a subtle call for rebellion against the judiciary and the Nigerian State, and must be addressed seriously by the nation’s law enforcement agencies. This is even as the group further alleged that the claim by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) at the Presidential Election Tribunal that its witnesses were attacked on their way to Abuja from Zamfara, which had been debunked by the Nigerian Police, was a reflection of the party’s lack of a moral compass, its zero values and a worrisome desperation. The group stated this in two separate press statements signed by its Chairman, Niyi Akinsiju and Secretary, Cassidy Madueke. The group noted that Ugochinyere’s call was an incitement, calling for rebellion against the processes of the judiciary, and seeking that Nigeria is plunged into chaos. This, according to the group, must not be treated with kids -gloves by the nation’s security agencies. “Are there no law enforcement agencies in the country? Is this not a prima facie call to rebellion and anarchy? Are we going to wait for hired thugs to attack the judiciary before we see where the PDP and Atiku are headed to? “BMO finds the call by the ‘rogue’ group CUPP, seeking that the Supreme Court declare Atiku President as a joke taken too far. It subtly calls for anarchy and must not be tolerated by the Nigerian State. “The judiciary has its processes; President Buhari was declared the winner in a free and fair election. The closest loser, Atiku Abubakar, who was far behind him with a margin of nearly 4 million votes, has challenged Buhari’s victory in court. Atiku must, therefore, submit himself to the processes of the court and not use ‘charlatan’ groups to call for a rebellion against the Nigerian state. “The court processes are not influenced by third parties who have no business in the arena. CUPP’s satellite relationship with Atiku is no ground for it to make such seditious remarks against the judiciary, on a matter that is already in court. Justice is a matter of evidence, material facts and law – not anarchy, not chaos, not up-ending the system!” The group urges the country’s security agencies to quickly swoop on Ugochinyere and investigate the intent of his alleged subtle call for anarchy and rebellion against the judiciary and the Nigerian state. Also speaking on the claim by the PDP at the Presidential Election Tribunal that its witnesses were attacked on their way to Abuja from Zamfara, the BMO accused the PDP of extending its bad habit of deception to the courtroom by bracingly lying to the court that its witnesses were attacked when nothing of that sort ever happened. “As usual, we are not surprised as this is not new. The PDP has taken its art of deception to the courtroom. In an attempt to pull the wool over the eyes of members of the Presidential Election Tribunal, the party blatantly created a fictional story that its witnesses were attacked by bandits, an event that never happened. “This is shameful sophistry. It is contempt of the court. And as much as it is offensive to the hallowed chambers of the courts it is a vexatious insult to the sensibilities of the Nigerian people. The PDP and Atiku take Nigerians for granted and think we are fools, gullible to their fictional creations. But this outright lie is one taken too far. “When the story first made its way to the media, we were suspicious; and like everything coming out of the PDP, we treated it with caution. It was, therefore, no surprise when the NPF announced that no such attack took place as none was reported. In fact, the Police stated that on that fateful day, no records of crimes were made on that expressway.” BMO stated that the PDP would go to any length to deceive Nigerians, even using the most sensitive issues like an attack by bandits to further their deceit. It went further to remind Nigerians that this false story allegedly cooked up by the PDP was similar to its unfortunate fictional creation of an INEC server that it claimed results of the presidential election were transmitted to.  Iniobong Iwok