The Senate has set up a seven-man ad hoc committee to probe the alleged assault on a nursing mother by the lawmaker representing Adamawa North in the National Assembly, Elisha Abbo. This comes as the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has summoned the embattled lawmaker on the matter. The Senate committee which is chaired by a former governor of Ebonyi State, Sam Egwu, has two weeks to submit its report. This followed a point of order raised by Uba Sani (APC, Kaduna) on the floor of the Senate on Wednesday. Speaking under Order 14 of the Senate Standing Order 2015 (as amended), he urged the Senate to take decisive action on the matter to redeem the credibility of the upper legislative chamber. According to him, he has received over 100 phone calls both from within and outside Nigeria less than 24 hours after the video surfaced online. The motion was seconded by Michael Opeyemi Bamidele (APC, Ekiti), even as Senate President, Ahmad Lawan said the probe will enable all parties state their case. Other members of the panel include Oluremi Tinubu (APC, Lagos), Matthew Ughoghide (PDP, Edo), Stella Oduah (PDP, Anambra), Dauda Haliru Jika (APC, Bauchi), Mohammed Sani Musa (APC, Niger) and Danladi Sankara (APC, Jigawa). In a 10-minute video that has gone viral, the 41-year-old Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) lawmaker, dubbed the youngest Nigerian senator, is seen slapping the nursing mother repeatedly at a sex toy shop in Abuja. Though the video surfaced online on Tuesday, the incident was said to have occurred on May 11, a month before Abbo was sworn in on June 11, 2019. Reacting to the development, the Peoples Democratic Party described the action of the embattled lawmakers as callous and distasteful. A statement issued on Wednesday by PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Olognondiyan, also applauded the Senate for prompt intervention on the matter. “Our party is also shocked that the harmless victim of the unprovoked assault is said to be a nursing mother, who ought to be protected. “Though this is a personal conduct of an individual which has no bearing with the culture of our party, the PDP however holds that no responsible person will condone such an attitude. “In the light of this, the NWC has commenced investigation into the matter and summons Senator Elisha Abbo in line with the provisions of the Constitution of the PDP and code of conduct of our members. “The PDP, at all levels of engagement, is reputed for her utmost respect and commitment towards the rights, safety and wellbeing of our citizens, particularly our women and cannot tolerate any callous assault on any Nigerian. “The PDP therefore assures Nigerians that it will always stand on the side of justice and will never spare a thought in taking action on any of its members found wanting, particularly those elected or appointed into public offices,” the statement reads. More to follow….