Rahul De, chief marketing and strategy officer of MTN Nigeria, has said that the Lagos State Private Schools Spelling Bee competition sponsored by the communication company is aimed at encouraging the reading culture among pupils and students of private schools across Lagos. “As we know, readers are leaders; we have found a way to encourage these future leaders to strive for even more,” he said. According to De, in a bid to satisfy the yearning for improved spoken English skills among pupils and students, MTN Nigeria through its tween and teen proposition, mPulse sponsored the first phase of the Lagos State spelling bee competition. He stated that the first batch of the intra-school competition was held across 70 private schools in Lagos, with the second batch of the competition to come up later in the year. “The importance of a competition that enables young minds to exercise their creativity in English Grammar cannot be overemphasised. This will help thousands of students improve their spelling knowledge, increase their vocabulary, learn a variety of concepts and develop correct English usage that will set them apart and expand their opportunities,” De stated. The second phase of the spelling bee will usher a three-week inter-school competition, which will have schools compete in various education districts of the state, culminating in a grand finale during the last quarter of the year. Ifako International School; Barachel Schools; Chrisland Schools; Caleb International School; Dansol High School; CTC School, are among the over 37 schools that have competed so far in the keenly contested competition. The champion of the spelling bee will become the first kid-CEO of MTN Nigeria, as Ferdi Moolman, the chief executive officer of MTN Nigeria will welcome the winner to occupy his seat for one day. The mPulse Lagos State spelling bee competition has continued to deliver an informative experience for all the participants, parents and schools involved as well as those following the competition on numerous online and social media platforms.  SEYI JOHN SALAU