The House of Representatives said, despite the constitution of the Standing Committees, ad- hoc Committees and other Special Committees will still continue with their responsibilities. These include; the ad – hoc Committee on Media, Selection Committee, Ethics and Privileges Committee, Edo State Assembly ad -hoc Committee, Bauchi State Assembly ad -hoc Committee, Pipelines Vandalization Committee in Rivers State, the Non-Remittance of Contributions into the Nigerian Social Insurance Trust Fund, among others. Recall that Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker of the House of Representatives had announced the constitution of 105 Standing Committees and 4 Special Committees, bring the number to 109. Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau), member of the ad- hoc Committee on Media while briefing journalists on the activities of the House explained that both the ad- hoc and Standing Committees have specific roles and responsibilities to discharge. “Some ad- hoc Committees responsibilities differ a little bit with the Standing Committees that were put in place. Some have specific roles and responsibilities to discharge. “Like the ad- hoc Committee investigating recruitment exercise that are being done by Ministries and Departments of government. It is absolutely different from the Standing Committee on Federal Character and it has a unique mandate to investigate irregularities as well as monitor the employment that is going on at the moment”, Gagdi said. He noted that contrary to insinuations that the Speaker has rescinded on his promise to carry members along irrespective of party affiliations on the leadership of Committees, 21 members of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party Members and four minority parties members Committees have been appointed Chairmen and 30 Deputy Chairmen of Committees. Responding to questions on the resolve of the House to take over Edo State of Assembly, Gagdi admitted that though, the House has made a mistake, it would wait for the concurrence of the Senate before taking further action.  James Kwen, Abuja