The Lagos state branch of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) is leveraging technology to bridge learning challenges faced by young and aspiring bankers with the recent launch of its e-learning platform. With the advent of several digital platforms for learning and the current level of technology adoption across the world, continuous innovation in line with the recent technology advancements and adoption is considered the catalyst for educational advancement. “With the level of adoption of technology all over the world, it is often said that technology is no longer a competitive advantage. The adoption of technology is also in line with the strategic priorities that we set out when we took over the mantle of leadership earlier this year,” said Peter Ashade, chairman of the Lagos branch of the CIBN at the launch of the e-learning platform. According to Ashade, the e-learning platform will help create divergent membership base for the institute. “Historically, close to 70% of the members sitting for our examination resides in Lagos, thus limiting our membership and the efficacy of our strategic objective as an institute at large. “The trickle-down effect of increased membership will then be increased revenue for the institute as the prospective members who would otherwise not have enrolled in the institute will now take advantage of this opportunity,” Ashade stated. Mesiah Uche Olowu, the president of the CIBN on his part lauded the centre for taking a proactive move with the e-learning platform, stating that content is the critical factor that separates the institute from other professional bodies in Nigeria. “We need transformational leaders,” said Olowu who pledged that the national secretariat will collaborate with the Lagos chapter on e-learning. The launch of the e-learning platform, which was developed in conjunction with CIBN technology partner, Edutech from the Venture Garden Group have lectures in form of texts, audio recordings, video recordings, online games and other simulated classroom learning features. The e-learning platform creates flexibility for members, especially student members that have suspended their participation in the CIBN examination as a result of time factors due to increase work demand at their various organisations either financial or non-financial.
It is expected that the platform will significantly increase the membership drive capacity of the Lagos branch of the institute, as the access to quality study for its exam is made available to all in every part of the world thereby compressing the time, place and cost for students.  Segun Adams