AirPeace, Nigeria’s largest carrier experienced over 85percent load factor on its inaugural flight to Sharjah yesterday. Allen Onyema, chairmen Air Peace,  has said that the airline’s foray into international operations will help end the short changing of Nigerians flying to Europe and other international destination. Speaking at the inaugural flight of Air Peace to Dubai, via Sharjah, Onyema empathised with Nigerian travellers stating that they pay far more for international flights than those who fly for three hours more. The airline which commenced its inaugural operations with over 85 percent load factor aims at maintaining its startup trajectory and according to its chairman aims at combating the price imbalance in the region. “Let me tell Nigerians, what you pay to Europe for a 6hour flight , those that fly 9hours from Jo’ burg do not pay that; it’s time to stop the short-changing,” he said. The AirPeace boss also said that competitors airlines would soon begin to crash their fares when they hear of and see the attractive offer Air Peace has in store but reminded them that these airlines refused to drop those fares initially until they came in. ” As we speak our fares are attractive, we have N180,000 to Dubai via Sharjah on Economy, that is already almost 60% reduction as it is and we have N750,000 for Business Class while our First Class is N850,000 you won’t get a better offer, in fact for First class you see fromN2million up. I’m sure some airlines will reduce their fares but this is just to ensnare you again and keep ripping you off.” ” You know that every cent, every penny, every kobo paid into Aor Peace will go a long way to create more jobs and bring our people out from poverty.” “I am sure that Air Peace will start and not close shop after some months , I have no doubt this will succeed, it’s not because we have the best pilots or the best aircraft or the best maintenance , it is because of God ,” he said. Also speaking, Saibu Zackari, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Aviation, pledged government’s support to Air Peace stating that government supports all Nigerian Airline and will support Air Peace. The Permanent Secretary represented by  Azssan Musa, Director Air Traffic Management also hinted that government has helped with its special window for making foreign exchange available as well as aircraft spares. Immediately the flight touched down Sharjah, passengers expressed their excitment by commending the airline for making the bold step to commence the route. The flight would leave Sharjah for Lagos on Monday, the 8th of July, 2019.