The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu on Sunday said the killing of Mrs Funke Olakunrin must not be stigmatized and used to divide the country amongst its ethnics. The former Governor of Lagos State who spoke during a condolence visit to Pa Reuben Fasoranti in Akure, the Ondo state capital noted that the killing was sad and unacceptable. He said kidnappings and killings are not only being committed by herdsmen, saying that Nigerians must not add ethnic and political colorations to the insecurity challenges facing the country. ” I am extremely concerned about security but i don’t want a stigma,i can go through history of kidnapping in Nigeria and we know how and where it all started, there are a lot of copycats. ” There are cases of kidnapping and killings in the country. Is Evans too who was arrested and made disclosures also a herdsman? I don’t want to be political, but I will ask where are the cows? ” We must not use this incident to divide ourselves but we must use it as a cure to the security problems.Additional police, additional patrol,and additional security reinforcement along Ore road and various flash points across the country is necessary and i have discussed this among the various authorities. The governor is eminently aware and being proactive about this. ” The security challenges are numerous across this country and to fight it we are going through that, more police are being recruited and it takes time to train and deploy them to various areas, nobody prepares more than necessary for this.” The APC chieftain speaking further noted : ” I am a nationalist and the securtity concern and challenge right now must be face squarely throughout Nigeria. The incident that affected one member of our family Mrs Olakunrin is seriously sad, and unacceptable but nobody can return her alive, she has answered the call of her creator. ” The security challenges are numerous across this country and to fight it we are going through that, more police are being recruited and it takes time to train and deploy them to various areas, nobody prepares more than necessary for this. ” But if you look at Zamfara, Osun, Ondo, Ekiti and all areas, then we need to fight poverty, unemployment and the causes that might lead people to crying. ” Equally we must create opportunity to convert this tragedy to prosperity.
” Funke is very close to me and she died a premature death. only four or five days ago, we chatted and i know what she discussed with me even about Baba’s health conditions.We just pray that this will not happen again. ”  YOMI AYELESO, Akure