Wife of the outgoing governor of Lagos, Bolanle Ambode, who doubles as chairman, Committee of Wives of Lagos State Officials (COWLSO), has explained that the interventions of the committee in the state’s health sector were driven by the need to fill observed gaps in the provision of healthcare services to the citizens, especially women and children. Ambode stated this at the official handing over of the leadership of COWLSO, to Ibijoke Sanwoolu, wife of the governor-elect of Lagos State, who would be sworn in on Wednesday, May 29. According to Ambode, such interventions by the committee in the last four years had seen several children, women and men benefiting from free surgeries, donations of aids to patients, upgrade of facilities and provision of hi-tech medical equipment to different hospital and health institutions across the state. She listed some of the interventions to include sponsorship of goiter surgery for 30 women, hearing aids for 15 children, three women and two men and upgrade of ENT Department of the General Hospital, Odan, Lagos, installation of audiology equipment, including Otoread OAE capable of detecting hearing defects in newborns. “In addition, Badagry, Ifaiko-Ijaiye, Ikorodu, Shomolu, Alimosho and Gbagada General Hospitals, were equipped with Otoread Portable OAE, and an Intensive Care Unit was also donated to the Island Maternity Hospital. Continuing, she said: “Other phases of the intervention included the procurement and donation of two Transport Incubator Ambulance to Gbagada General Hospital and Island Maternity Hospital, coupled with the donation of 32 neo-natal incubators to 13 general hospitals and six fully fitted birthing suites for Amuwo-Odofin Maternal and Child Centre, Epe General and Island Maternity Hospital, Lagos, among other interventions,” she said. Ambode, who appreciated members of the committee for their support and steadfast, however, urged them and other segments of the society to extend same support to the incoming chairman, Ibijoke Sanwoolu. In her response after the signing of various documents related to COWLSO, Sanwo olu’s wife commended the outgoing first-lady, and pledged to work together with the women to further raise the bar in service to Lagos. “We are going diagnose the society, challenges and take COWLSO to the next level. Don’t be surprised if you see your first-lady clean the gutters and sweeping the streets. We’re going to do it together,” she said.  JOSHUA BASSEY