The petroleum retail industry has evolved over the past three decades – in terms of structure, layout, ownership and technologies. Globally, the industry is already driven by technology, the use of self-service alternatives, feedback systems and many other innovations. Players in this industry that have taken this change and incorporated technology into their business model are at the forefront of some of the world’s biggest growth opportunities. In Nigeria, the sector is evolving – and rapidly showing steady growth in the incorporation of innovative technology to advance the streamlining of products and services. At the moment, the traditional forecourt model is ripe for disruption as petroleum retailers are well placed to leverage digital disruption to develop and enhance their offerings. There is a need for processes to be made more streamlined through the integration of new processes and systems. From mechanical DU, tank gauges, to electronic and integrated point of sale (POS) and back office system (BOS) – it has increasingly become important for stakeholders to optimize their site formats and operations in order to deliver differentiated offerings and customer experience. Within the next five to ten years, we will see the best-in-class petroleum retailers seize new opportunities by enabling future-ready adaptive forecourts to achieve seamless customer experience. Moving past merely servicing vehicles, service stations will have the opportunity to cater for multiple customers and vehicle needs beyond energy. Stakeholders in the industry will develop roadmaps to make their services more attractive, from the use of technology to drive operations, to the development of clean energy zones and relaxation centers. The frontiers available in fuel retail are endless so long as the stakeholders can embrace the possibilities. One company leading the charge for a technology driven retail industry is ENYO Retail and Supply. The innovative fuel retail brand has already designed and deployed a number of technology driven initiatives for the oil and gas industry including the introduction of Diesel2Door; a streamlined digitally driven convenient way to order and pay for quality diesel at competitive rates to consumer doorstep in less than 48hours. The brand also drives the development of human capacity for mechanics across the country – training mechanics with the skills needed to correctly diagnose and repair the most technologically advanced automobiles through “MechTech” – one of the company’s flagship initiative. Technology continues to drive the development of industries globally, revamping economies, presenting opportunities, creating alternative payment infrastructure and revolutionizing lives. According to the global statistics and behavioral science index, there is already growing evidence that children learn important science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) skills from everyday play and early learning activities. By building forts, solving puzzles or stacking blocks – children develop the technicalities of data collection, strategy development and problem solving, from even the minutest activities. These activities, when facilitated well, aren’t only laying a foundation for future STEM learning; they’re allowing kids to actually be technology incubators, scientists and innovation builders. It is thereby important for children to learn about technology from a young age. STEM needs to be where the children are – in school, after-school; during holidays, and in local communities. STEM has to be introduced at a young age when the children are still the most curious. Children need STEM mentors and role models to look up to. They need more education about STEM degrees and related jobs so they can look forward to bright futures in technology and innovation development. Taking up the challenge to help up-skill children and promote human capacity development across several age categories in Nigeria, ENYO and the Co Creation Hub, Nigeria’s first open living lab and pre-incubation company partnered to launch the “STEM cafe” at all ENYO service stations across the nation. The STEM cafe is a learning center designed to introduce children between the ages 5-18 to Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics in a fun and engaging way – by providing a conducive learning environment for parents who require a drop-off centre for their children after school hours. The STEM Café is centered around a learning package focusing on STEM education with the aim of empowering young people with skills to set them up for success. Delivered via flexible payment packages, the STEM café provides various learning resources such as coding challenges, digital labs, computer games and robotic kits to educate participants on various STEM concepts. Enyo Retail and Supply continues to set the technology trend in the oil and gas industry with the launch of the STEM Cafe – incorporating innovative technology and cutting edge initiatives as a truly modern company well interested in the well-being and future of their community.  JUMOKE AKIYODE-LAWANSON