Humbled by the trust of the electorate and aware of the challenges, Cyril Ramaphosa took oath May 25 for his first full five-year-term as president of South Africa. He assumed office in 2018 following the forced exit of Jacob Zuma and won re-election in his own right in the May 8 election. Many challenges and opportunities confront Ramaphosa as he steers the country as the fourth person elected on the platform of the African National Congress since the end of apartheid. Youth unemployment is a high 27 percent. Corruption casts a shadow and hangs over the country; it was the leading cause for the failure of former labour leader Jacob Zuma. Series of corruption scandals forced the people to ask Zuma out. There remains the challenge of closing the gap in the vast disparity and economic inequality between the races owing to its history. The 58 percent of the votes is a good score, but down from the regular 80-90 percent the ANC fetched in the past. He needs to restore the confidence of the black majority in an ANC-led government. Economic growth at 1,2 per cent in 2019 and a projected 1.5 per cent in 2020 is insufficient. Consumer confidence is low, and the GDP per capita continues to decline. Ramaphosa has acted on corruption, but the country requires more holistic treatment of the menace. The wage bill of government-owned enterprises grew so much it became a scandal such as ESKOM, the electricity utility. Ramaphosa declared, “The challenges that we face are real.But they are not insurmountable.They can be solved. And we are going to solve them.” The fourth black president of South Africa enacted the traditional dance of his people as he rejoiced with citizens at the inauguration. He dressed in a black suit, white shirt and red ties, custom attire of the business class. A former labour leader and a top official of the ANC, Ramaphosa succeeded much as an entrepreneur. He was a poster boy for the Black Empowerment post-apartheid. Among his many positions, Ramaphosa was a director of MTN Communications, the South African firm that leads the telecommunications market across Africa. South Africans and the world expect Ramaphosa to bring the drive and discipline of business to the running of South Africa. His speech at the inauguration read like a SWOT analysis of the country he leads as it expects new dawn. He stated, “Despite our most earnest efforts, many South Africans still go to bed hungry, many succumb to diseases that can be treated, many live lives of intolerable deprivation. Too many of our people do not work especially the youth.In recent times, our people have watched as some of those in whom they had invested their trust have surrendered to the temptation of power and riches.They have seen some of the very institutions of our democracy eroded and resources squandered. The challenges that we face are real.But they are not insurmountable.” It was a nice coincidence that Ramaphosa’s inauguration was on Africa Day, a day celebrated across Africa. It offered the president of the Republic of South Africa an opportunity to speak to the rest of Africa even as the challenges and the picture he painted represented most of the continent. “We gather here on the day that the people of our continent celebrate the unity of Africa. It is a day of friendship, solidarity and cooperation. It is a day on which we reaffirm our common commitment to an Africa that is at peace, that is prosperous, and that promises a better existence for its people. “As South Africa, we are honoured and deeply humbled by the presence here of leaders from across the African continent. We are profoundly grateful to you for choosing to celebrate Africa Day among us, giving further poignancy to South Africa’s transformation from a pariah state to a full and valued member of the family of African nations,” Ramaphosa stated. Ramaphosa must build a fairer South Africa. He needs to prioritise the provision of world-class education for the majority black population and increased productivity in the economy. Improvements in urban housing are a priority to eliminate the ugly sights of the townships that remind of the evil of apartheid. The president of South Africa must ensure that the narrative of South Africa is positive and that it does not fall below the standards during apartheid but instead increases in vital areas such as standard of living, healthcare, education and overall modernity. We wish Ramaphosa many successes in the next five years. 