Crown Flour Mills, a subsidiary of Olam Grains Nigeria, says it will soon launch an exclusive app for bakers and caterers in the country. The bakers’ app which is expected to be inaugurated before July, will allow bakers across the country interact directly with the company. Anurag Shukla, managing director, Olam Grains Nigeria, made the disclosure during the unveiling of Raji Omotunde as the company’s brand ambassador for its Mama Gold Flour, recently in Lagos. “We all know digital technology is the way to go and we want to ensure that baking remains profitable for bakers,” said Shukla, who was represented by Rohit Chugh, deputy managing director of the company “With the app we will be able to connect and engage with bakers. We will take their feedback and respond to bakers’ complaints. We believe with this we will be able to make them more profitable,” he said. He stated that bakers just need to download the app on their mobile devices to connect and take the Mama Gold Flour to the next level. Also speaking during the unveiling, Bolaji Anifowose, vice president – commercial, Crown Flour Mills, said that the choice of Omotunde, who is the chairman, Lagos State Chapter of Master Bakers and Caterers Association of Nigeria as the brand ambassador for its Mama Gold Flour was to promote the brand. “The firm has been looking for ways to better relate with the bakers and the opportunity presented itself in the selection of Omotunde,” Anifowose said. “The unveiling of Omotunde will create that platform to relate with bakers and to personify the brand in the ambassador. Omotunde has shown tremendous support for the brand in over 20 years. It is a well-deserved honour,’’ he added. Dominic Daniels, national president, Association of Master Bakers and Caterers of Nigeria (AMBCN), commended Crown Flour Mills for maintaining and strengthening a cordial relationship with bakers. Daniels, who was represented by Kabiru Hassan, said that the association would also like to encourage the firm to continue a good price regime and maintain the quality of the Mama Gold Flour. “We are soliciting for a good price regime to help bakers become profitable is maintained and sustained for the progress of the flour industry in Nigeria,” he said. In his acceptance speech as brand ambassador for Mama Gold Flour, Raji Omotunde said he was delighted to have been honoured with the duty as an ambassador. Omotunde urged bakers to continue to use Mama Gold Flour and pledged on behalf of the association to promote the company’s products.  Josephine Okojie