The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says President Muhammadu Buhari’s statement that anger, frustration and disenchantment among the youths are responsible for the escalation of kidnapping, abduction and other crimes in the country, is a direct admission of his failure in governance. PDP also stated that this explanation confirms that President Buhari is aware that Nigerian youths did not vote for him in the February 23 Presidential election. A statement on Tuesday by Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP National Publicity Secretary, said the remarks by the President is equally an admission that he has no solution to the rising insecurity in most parts of the country. According to the statement, the situation would continue if its ‘stolen Presidential mandate’ is not retrieved in the law courts. “Is it not appalling that at a time when other world leaders are leading their youths to constructive and productive ventures and developing their nations, Nigerian youths are being pushed into situations of anger, frustration and recourse to criminality? “Under President Buhari, our national economy has continued to slide; over 30 millions Nigerians have lost their jobs and basic means of livelihood; businesses have continued to shut down; cost of essential goods and services have persistently soared, while purchasing power of citizens worsen. “It is more disheartening that instead of finding solutions, Mr. President resorted to rhetoric and begging the question to the extent of describing criminality as a “new occupation and a business”. “Moreover, Nigerians were shocked at President Buhari’s insensitivity to the victims of the bloodlettings, kidnapping, banditry and other acts of violence in the country when he trivialized and made a joke of the insecurity in the land by stating that losing weight is a sign that the Inspector General of Police, Adamu Mohammed, was effectively tackling the security issues. “It is most heartbreaking that at the time President Buhari was making a joke on the security situation, bandits were having a field day in communities in Zamfara State where they reportedly killed over 50 Nigerians, while many more compatriots are still held hostage by kidnappers in forests in various parts of our country. “Such attitude to governance, especially on issues that have to do with the lives of Nigerians, is completely unacceptable and must be condemned by all,” the statement reads.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja