The board of Sterling Bank Plc has appointed Femi Jaiyeola as the chief compliance office of the bank. This appointment has been approved by the nation’s apex bank, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). A seasoned professional with over 20 years’ experience, prior to joining Sterling Bank, Femi was a general manage and the group chief compliance office of Diamond Bank Plc. He has garnered extensive experience in risk management, banking operations, business advisory, internal audit, external audit and compliance from both local and international environments such as from Europe, Africa and the Middle East. He was previously the head of audit , Nigeria and West Africa Cluster at the Standard Chartered Bank. His international experiences include six years with UK Financial Service Industry as vice president in internal audit, internal auditor in Citigroup and Barclays respectively. He also worked as Bond Bank Nigeria and Arthur Andersen (Now KPMG). Femi holds a bachelor’s degree in Accounting from the University of Ilorin and a master’s degree in finance and investment from the University of Edinburgh, Scotland. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), a Certified Information System Auditor (CISA) and a member of the Board of Audit, Investigations and Forensic Accounting. African Alliance Insurance has appointed Sylva Ogwemoh and Ahmad Nahuche as non executive directors. Ogwemoh is the principal partner and head of the law firm, Kelvin Martin Ogwemoh Legal, a commercial law firm with headquarters in Lagos. He obtained his LL.B from the then Bendel State University( now Ambrose Alli University) Ekpoma in 1987. He was admitted as a solicitor and advocate of the Supreme Court of Nigeria in 1988. In 2000, he obtained a master in law degree with specialisation in corporate management and finance law from the Lagos State University. Ogwemoh is analumnus of Said Business School, University of Oxford, United Kingdom. He became a notary public of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 1988 and was subsequently elevated to the prestigious rank of the Senior Advocate of Nigeria in 2014. He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators, UK; member, London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA African’s users’Council), among others. Ahmad Nahuche began his career in the judicial service department of the old North Western State Civil Service in 1974. In 1988, he joined the federal civil service where he served for three years as director, finance/supply at the Federal Ministry of Health, Abuja. He graduated from the University of Bradford, UK with a post graduate certificate. He holds a bachelor’s degree in economics from the New York Institute of Technology, USA. He is a member of the National institute of Policy and Strategic Studies, Kuru, Jos, Plateau State.  TELIAT SULE