The House of Representatives Thursday summoned President Muhammadu Buhari to address the nation on measures being taken to tackle the rising cases of killings, banditry, armed robbery and kidnappings. Recall that the House had on April 11, 2019 extended the same invitation to the President, giving him 48 hours ultimatum to personally speak to the people but almost one month afterwards, he is yet to do so. The House latest resolution on the matter was taken at the Thursday plenary during the presentation, consideration and adoption of a motion titled “Urgent Need for Federal Government’s Intervention on the Ongoing Wanton Killing of Innocent Persons, Destruction of Properties, Armed Robbery and Kidnappings by Heavily Armed Bandits Operating Within Safana/Batsari/Dansamu Federal Constituency”. The motion was sponsored by Ahmed Dayyabu-Safana, Member representing Safana/Batsari/Dansamu Federal Constituency of Katsina State. Safana while moving the motion stated that some villages within his constituency had been serially attacked with many people killed by armed bandits. He said that as an immediate step in containing the evil activities of the heavily armed bandits, the president should urgently declare a state of emergency in the federal constituency. According to him, “the House notes with dismay the ongoing battacks on various communities with Safana/Batsari/Dansamu Federal Constituency of Katsina State by heavily baremd bandits who continuously unleash mayhem against my constituents on daily basis. “Also notes that the recent spate of the said attacks on members of my constituency has reached an alarming stage as the perpetrators of this dastardly act continuously kill innocent persons in my constituency and set their homes ablaze while defenceless men and women are abducted to an unknown destination. “Worried that up to four villages within my constituency are currently under attack in the last 48 hours namely: Massa Village in Batasari Local Government where no fewer than 5 persons have been killed, Alhazawa Village in Safana LGA had been totally displaced, Guzurawa village murdered in Safana LGA also had several persons murdered in cold blood and just yesterday, Gobirawa Village came under attack with no fewer than 12 dead bodies littered in the bush while many are still missing. “Also worried that these killings have continued unabated and these bandits seem to be unstoppable with a specific instance at Gobirawa Village in Safana LGA where the bereaved villagers were forced to abandon the corpses during the burial and scampered for safety when they sighted the bandits coming back to launch another offensive. “Disturbed that these bandits who operate both at night and in broad day light on motorbikes parade sophisticated weapons including AK 47 assault rifles and other dangerous weapons which they use in committing heinous crimes against my constituents. “Concerned that despite persistent cries from the affected communities, the security operatives appear not being proactive especially on security tip off and most times fail to respond promptly. “Cognisant that the fundamental duty of any government is the protection and preservation of lives and property by being responsive in the face of this type of cruelty and atrocity committed against its citizen. “Aware that it is constitutional duty and responsibility of this hallowed chamber to take action whenever these levels of inhuman and brutal attacks are being inflicted on any community or group of people”. Contributing to the debate of the motion, Bashir Babale from Kano State who stated that “Infrastructure has collapsed where banditry takes place”, compared the former adminstration of Goodluck Jonathan with the present one, saying that it was wrong to have accused the erstwhile government of being docile. Gabriel Onyenweife from Anambra State said that “Nigeria is not a safe country. The executive should take the lead and lead Nigeria from a failed security state.” Chika Adamu from Niger State who spoke with teary eyes, the government must urgently find solution to the problem. “We must do something, Mr. Speaker. I can’t go to my village and spend a night since the last one year.” In his own contribution, Useni Moriki from Zamfara State said that his own local government was not safe. “What happened in Yobe, in Borno in the north east is now happening in northwest, in Zamfara, in my own local government”. Awaji Abinte from Bayelsa, said, it is different strokes for different people. “Here we are, convinced that we have a problem on our hand but outside of this place, some will tell you that Nigeria is more secure than before. That tells you that we are not on the same page”, he said. In his remarks, Yakubu Dogara, Speaker of the House said that it was necessary to invite the President for an address since the issue of banditry has become national. Adopting the motion, the House called on the federal government to deploy the military to the areas under attack to assist the police and other security agencies in flushing out the criminal elements operating in the constituency. It also called for the declaration of state of emergency in the area while urging the National Emergency Management Agency, NEMA to urgently provide relief materials to the victims of the attacks”.  James Kwen, Abuja