Rather than roll out drums to celebrate the inauguration of its Presidential candidate, Muhammadu Buhari and governors Wednesday, the ruling All Progressives Congress is into fresh crisis and confusion. This is as Lawali Shuaibu, APC the Deputy National Chairman, North has asked Adams Oshiomhole, the party’s National Chairman to resign his position for causing the party failures, defeats and embarrassments. Oshiomhole is been accused of causing defeats for the APC after the conduct of the 2019 general elections particularly the last Friday Supreme Court judgement that sacked the party’s governorship, national and state assemblies candidates and declared the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP candidates winners on account of acrimonious primaries orchestrated by the National Chairman. In the six-page letter dated May 27th, 2019, and addressed to the Chairman, Shuaibu noted that in advanced democracies, people who fail to add value or build over and above what they met on assumption of duty show some civilised examples and “they honourably resign.” The letter titled: ‘Its fortune and misfortune, time to act! Oshiomhole’s Deputy said, “it is my honest opinion that your ability to ensure this party flourishes is deficient as you lack the necessary composure and you also don’t posses the capabilities and the requisite experience to run a political party. ” I write this letter to you with a very deep (sic) heart and high sense of responsibility. I write this letter thinking because I am a critical stakeholder in the APC project. “I write this letter with my hands shaking, arising from the realizing of my involvement in a project that is currently seen as failing, even before achieving the ambition of its founding fathers. I never found myself in any failed project. “In advanced democracies, people who fail to add value or build over and above what they met on assumption of duty show some civilized examples, they honourably bow out. “In that connection, therefore, I want to advise you to take the path of honour, to step aside and allow the Party to embark on the onerous task of reconstruction and rehabilitation in those States it was weakened by the effect of the last primary election exercises. “Or even the task of recreating the party where it is on the path of extinction, arising from the loss of a sitting APC Government, for example in Zamfara State, where you directly personally created the problem leading to the painful complete loss of APC’s electoral fortunes. “From up to down, all these are uncontestable facts. You cannot exonerate yourself from what happened to APC (in) Zamfara State, thereby destroying the hopes and aspirations of 534,541 APC members and supporters”.  James Kwen, Abuja