Miele, a German premium manufacturing brand and Julius Berger’s furniture arm, AFP Furniture Production, recently entered into a strategic partnership to deliver seamless décor outing for prospective customers. This was disclosed by Mustapha Olorunnimbe, the managing director of Miele Nigeria at the company’s showroom in Lagos during the unveiling of the strategic partnership between both organisations, where he said performance, durability, and aesthetics are the hallmarks of the German household appliances’ manufacturer. “The object of this partnership is to deliver greater satisfaction to our potential customers who are in search of luxury and sophistication. This collaboration will see the delivery of fit-for-purpose furniture that matches the size and colour of Miele appliances,” said Olorunnimbe. The company, which supplies premium domestic and professional range of kitchen, laundry, and floor care appliances, is known around the globe for its delivery of world-class satisfaction to its customers. According to Olorunnimbe, “The Lagos showroom, like our Abuja one, is intended to get closer to our customers as well as to show, in practical terms, what we have to offer to our prospective customers – private, corporate or public institutions. The luxury, finesse, and sophistication you see here are what we offer our clients. We customise these offerings to suit the needs and pockets of our customers,” he said. He further said that Miele Nigeria has a wide array of appliances for the kitchen, laundry, floor, offices, and hospitals which potential customers could choose from. He also informed them that these appliances come at competitive prices as these products are supplied directly from the Miele factory in Germany without going through intermediaries. “We are offering the Miele quality built for more than a century. We are the only manufacturers in our subsector that test our products such as washing machines, tumble dryers, dishwashers, refrigerators, ovens, and cookers – induction, electric and gas – to the equivalent of up to 20 years of use. “Miele combines excellent results with the lowest possible energy consumption. This goes for the hygienic and gentle care of your laundry, your flooring, and your crockery as well as when conjuring up exquisite culinary delights,” said Olorunnimbe stating that Miele technology guarantees efficiency, which is another offering that sets the company apart from the rest,” he said.  SEYI JOHN SALAU