British boxer, Anthony Joshua, says he is prepared to fight Tyson Fury if his clash with Deontay Wilder fails to materialise. Wilder first has a rematch with Luis Ortiz after beating the Cuban last year, set for New York’s Maddison Square Garden, before the 33-year-old will even consider taking on Joshua or Fury. But AJ would be happy with fellow British boxer Fury next. He told the BBC: “I think I can beat Ruiz. If Wilder is not available, I want Fury. “I said I want to meet Wilder, chat to him and the next day he announces a fight with no date or venue attached to it. I still say there is hope, but I think the next person I want then is Fury.” After more than a year of build up regarding a potential fight between Fury and Wilder, Joshua cast doubt on the clash ever happening. The Watford born boxer added: “These fighters have big egos now and think ‘if he wants to fight me he has to come and see me and all that’. “When I first fought for the title my promoter, Eddie Hearn, said when you get the title you are in a position of power. “I have done that and I feel there is still a power struggle with people thinking, even though they aren’t champion, they still think they are king. Let’s put that stuff aside and get a real solid fight under wraps.” IBF, WBA and WBO heavyweight champion, Joshua is keen to make memories from his boxing career, believing he can make another one from fighting and beating Fury, admitting he can’t help but look past his fight on Saturday. Joshua said: “Eddie showed me a video of me yesterday and it made me realise that everything we do in boxing is about memories. “I want to be able to say I had a great night with Fury, remember fighting Wladimir Klitschko and Alexander Povetkin. “When all is said and done, all you have left is good memories. “People speak about being fully focused on 1 June. I am but you can’t not look at the bigger picture. “I’m sure he is doing it himself. I don’t put blinkers on about seeing the future potential. “I will be confident in my ability and try and get him out of there in good fashion.” Joshua’s focus will have to remain on current opponent Ruiz Jr for now, who has only been beaten once in 33 professional fights.