African Fintech, Flutterwave, headquartered in Lagos and San Francisco has been awarded their ISO 27001 and 22301 certifications by the International Standards for Organisation in Switzerland. Following the successful completion of the ISO certification process in 2018,  Flutterwave was officially awarded the certificates for ISO 27001 and 22301. ISO 27001 is awarded to organisations that prove that they have systems in place to maintain, establish and continually improve their information security management system within the organisation. ISO 22301 certifications are awarded to businesses that have passed the requirements to show that they are capable of planning and establishing a business management system within the context of their industry.  Working in partnership with IT Governance, Risk and Compliance consulting company, Digital Jewels, Flutterwave was able to meet all requirements to receive these certifications. As a company that creates solutions for growth for businesses and individuals through payments, these certifications mean Flutterwave will be able to leverage on their security and business management standards to continue to innovate on payments solutions within and outside Africa.  Flutterwave is a payments solutions company in the Technology industry which has been operational in the US and Africa for over 2 years. In 2018, they processed a total of $1,000,000,000 through their products, Rave and Barter providing their services for companies like Uber, Flywire, Arik Air and Transferwise. Digital Jewels is an IT Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) Consulting and Capacity Building Firm. The Firm has deep competencies in Cybersecurity, Information Security, Business Continuity, Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing (VAPT), Project Management and Capacity Building. The firm has provided extensive certification support services for global best practice standards such as ISO27001 , ISO 20000, ISO 22301, and Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCIDSS) to public and private sector entities in different sectors of the Ghanaian and Nigerian economies, emerging as the firm with the most widespread track record of excellent delivery in implementing global standards. Speaking on the benefits of the ISO certifications for Flutterwave’s growth, Olugbenga Agboola, said “Our focus is to grow businesses within and outside of Africa, these certifications will further increase the faith of our current clients in the services we provide and help potential clients see that our payment infrastructure is equipped to handle their payment needs. We are one step closer in our journey to connect the world to Africa through payments.” In respect to the partnership between Digital Jewels and Flutterwave, Adedoyin Odunfa, MD/CEO of Digital Jewels says “Building Cyber Resilience, has become a competitive imperative to address the downside risk associated with the adoption of technology especially for organizations built on technology such as Flutterwave. After guiding Flutterwave through the end to end accreditation journey to the PCIDSS [Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard], Digital Jewels urged this dynamic and ambitious company to further secure its Information assets beyond the Cardholder Data scope of PCIDSS alongside building resilience into its processes.  This they achieved by developing an Integrated Management System comprising an Information Security Management System based on the ISO27001 Standard and a Business Continuity Management System based on the ISO22301 Standard. We are excited to have driven the implementation of these significant standards at Flutterwave and by so doing building a Cyber Resilient system” The certificate presentation ceremony was held at Flutterwave’s office in Lagos, Nigeria.