Moyosore Ogunlewe, candidate of the main opposition the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for the Lagos State House of Assembly for Kosofe constituency 1 in the 2019 general elections, Thursday formally defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State. Moyosore, a lawyer, is the son of a former Minister of Works, during the Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration, Adeseye Ogunlewe. He had informed the PDP chairman in Lagos State shortly after losing the election to the State Assembly in March about his resignation from the party. In 2015, he also lost the state Assembly election in the constituency to Bayo Osinowo of the APC. However, speaking at an elaborate ceremony to welcome him to the party held at his ward in Ogudu High School, Kosofe, GRA, he said his decision to join the APC was because he realised that it was the only party popular among the people. Moyosore promised to mobilised his supporters and contribute positively towards the APC’s victory in the constituency in the 2023 general elections. “I thank the party for the opportunity. The grassroots is where I have always been, i would be adding more to the vote of APC in this constituency. “I have large youth supporters, because we are bringing young people into politics and majority of the State Assembly members are youths,” he said. He said APC would win in 2023 under the APC, and promised to add value to the party in the coming years. “My supporters are not members of the PDP; they have always been with me. I am moving with several people who were in PDP and who contested with me in the last election,” Moyosore said. Speaking at the event, a member of the state House of Assembly, Tunde Buraimoh, said APC was happy that Moyosore had finally decided to return home. Buraimoh further stated Moyosore’s personality would further help the APC consolidate on recent victories in the constituency. “You are welcome to the APC. We are happy you have finally decided to join the family. Your joining us is an advantage to the party and we are happy because you are a strong politician,” Buraimoh said. The event was attended by several chieftains of the APC in Kosofe Local Goverment Area. The PDP in lagos state has been engulfed in internal crisis since the party’s poor performance in the 2019 general elections in the state, which has led to defection of some chieftains to the APC in the last few weeks.