Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-olu, says support from faith-based organisations will go a long way in achieving success with his administration’s waste and transportation reforms which aim to recreate a better Lagos for all. Sanwo-olu stated this during the first special prayers for his administration at the Central Mosque, Alausa, Ikeja on Friday, where he assured of continuous consultation and dialogue with both Muslim and Christian communities in the state. According to him, faith-based organisations have a role to play in getting Lagosians to imbibe the habit of cleanliness and hygiene by sorting their wastes at home and workplaces, and by obeying extant traffic rules and regulations. At the special prayer, which was also attended by his wife, Ibijoke Sanwo-olu, the governor promised he would return to the mosque in later days with waste-sorting materials of different colours, to show congregation and teach them how to sort waste of specific kind in a coloured-specific waste bin. The same, he said would be done in churches. Sanwo-olu implored clerics and leaders in the society to lead the reform campaigns in their communities, as people believe and relate with them more easily. He emphasised the importance of their collaboration, stressing that the reform would be half-won if faith-based leaders actively participated in the campaigns. While thanking Lagosians for their support before and during elections, he urged them not to relent in their   prayers for his administration and Lagos, as “their prayers are what will see the administration through.” He said his administration would also give priority to teachers’ welfare, school upgrading and school modernisation. He believed that in the spirit of the holy month of Ramadan, all prayers said for him, his deputy and other members of his administration would be easily answered just as he prayed for God’s special favour on Lagos State. Sanwo-olu was accompanied to the special prayer service by Obafemi Hamzat, his deputy, and Hakeem Muri- Okunola, the Lagos State head of service.  JOSHUA BASSEY