The Southwest chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has condemns the arrest and arraignment of the Governor-elect of Osun State, Ademola Adeleke by the Nigerian Police Force, saying that the action was meant to harass and intimidate him. Adeleke, who was the candidate of the PDP in the 2018 governorship election in Osun State, was arrested by the police on Monday. Force spokesman, Frank Mba, had explained that Adeleke was picked up for a criminal offence. However, Adeleke was on Tuesday, granted bail by a Magistrate Court sitting in Mpape in the sum of N2million and a surety who must be resident within Mpape. But in a statement by the National Vice Chairman (South-west) of the party, Eddy Olafeso, a copy of which was sent to BusinessDay, the party expressed dismay that the Nigeria Police Force could arrest and arraign Adeleke on an issue which had already been addressed by the court. The party, however, stated that no amount of intimidation and harassment could stop it and Adeleke from further pursuing the legal actions to retrieve its allegedly stolen mandate in Osun State. The PDP further warned that there would be dire consequences if any harm befalls Adeleke now or in the coming days. The opposition party further reminded the Nigeria Police that it was a constitutionally recognised institution of the state, stressing that it should not allow itself to be used by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). According to the statement, “We outrightly condemn the unjustified and politically-motivated arrest of the Governor-elect of Osun State, Senator Ademola Adeleke by the Nigeria Police Force on the strength of an unsubstantiated charge whose particulars have been serially addressed through affidavits in a Court of law. “We find this latest police action indecent as it is calculated to harass and intimidate Senator Adeleke out of his commitment to pursue actions to retrieve his stolen mandate from the current usurper in Osun State Government House. “It is important to assure the police and the sponsors of this action that irrespective of their arm-twisting and undemocratic actions, the PDP and Adeleke will pursue the legal actions to retrieve that mandate to a conclusion. “In view of the foregoing, we want to warn that no harm must befall Adeleke, now and in the days ahead as such development will certainly portend dire consequences.” The party further said: “We condemn all desperate actions currently being sponsored by the APC as they are ungentlemanly and a clear abuse of privileges”.  Iniobong Iwok