The Nigerian Army has declared zero tolerance for strike, protest and cultism of any form in its pioneer university in Biu, Borno State, vowing to deal decisively with members of staff and students, who engage in such tendencies The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai, stated this on Monday during the presentation of appointment letter to the vice chancellor of the university, Prof. David Malgwi. Buratai said: “As you are all aware that the university is a military establishment though with a conventional setting, discipline would thus be enforced as vices such as cultism, activism, protest or strike and any untoward acts or activities from both the students and staff would be viewed seriously.” While recalling that the Federal Executive Council (FEC) had approved the establishment of the university on April 3, 2018, the COAS said: “Consequently, the university commenced academic activities with the admission and registration of pioneer students. The maiden university matriculation for the pioneer students was held on 21 February 2019. With the sequence of activities in the trend of the university’s
evolution you would all agree with me that the university has come to life and to stay. “The focal point of the university as envisioned is to serve as solution centre for technological and operation problems of the Nigerian Army, military and the nation at large. “It is designed to create the critical mass required for research, innovation, testing and development in the 21st century settings. Additionally, it will provide excellence, ingenuity, creativity and distinctive competences in intellectual outcomes. “In considering these objectives and the realization of what the future holds for the university, I deemed it necessary to couch my vision for the university which is “To make the Nigerian Army
University Biu a centre of academic excellence in education, research and innovation for human capacity development, military science and technology for national development; and for the progress of humanity”. “This encompassing vision goes without saying that the university’s effort would be channelled towards not only developing the Nigerian Army’s capacity to compete professionally and responsively with other armies of the world but would also graduate a civilian manpower well
equipped to live and work in this emerging competitive world.  The importance of this citadel of learning in this age of automation and technological advancement can therefore not be overemphasised”, Buratai said. In the meantime,, Buratai has called on stakeholders to ensure the sustainability of the institution,by contributing human and material resources to that effect. “May I at this juncture appreciate the warm reception of the Biu Emirate Council for being a good host. “While commending your hospitality, I wish to call on all eminent sons and daughters of Biu Emirate Council, other catchment areas of the university, the North East and indeed all Nigerians to contribute positively in both human and material resources towards the
university’s development. I also urge the university community to ensure all hands are on deck to nurture the university. “Our efforts should not come to naught because of internal wrangling; we all know that a house divided cannot stand.  Therefore, I urge you to make your mark as pioneer staff employed to groom future leaders”, Buratai said.  Stella Enenche, Abuja