Global aviation software provider Ramco Systems has announced that it has secured an order to digitise the maintenance and engineering (M&E) operations of Caverton Helicopters Limited, a leading aviation and marine logistics player in Nigeria. Part of the Caverton Offshore Support Group Plc, Caverton Helicopters handles Emergency Medical Evacuation and Search & Rescue operations as well as provides logistics services to support Nigeria’s offshore oil and gas sector. Ramco will deploy its advanced modules for flight operations, safety compliance and reporting, inventory management, and MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Overhaul) Sales for Caverton which operates a fleet of 30 helicopters out of Murtala Muhammad International Airport in Lagos, Port Harcourt Airforce Base, Warri and Douala, Cameroon. Ramco will implement its Aviation M&E MRO Solution V5.8. with advanced applications, Caverton’s operations team will now be able to view multiple indicators and processes on a single dashboard. Apart from reducing manpower and human error, the suite will also improve maintenance schedules, fleet forecasting, planning and management of logistics, thereby improving overall safety and efficiency. Rotimi Makanjuola, chief operating officer, Caverton Offshore Support Group said, “We have been looking for a solution provider to pave the way for the company’s digital transformation. With its strong track record, Ramco Aviation Software will be able to cater to our end-to-end operational needs. We look forward to advancing our digital strategy with Ramco.” Josiah Choms, managing director, Caverton Helicopters Limited, said, “Time is of immense importance during an emergency medical evacuation. By having Ramco’s integrated system, Caverton will now be able to coordinate flight and maintenance schedules efficiently, assist automation and optimize productivity thereby ensuring we respond to emergencies in the region with greater speed.” Virender Aggarwal, CEO, Ramco Systems, said, “We at Ramco continuously strive to offer next-gen, innovative solutions that can help resolve major challenges in the aviation industry. Our partnership with Caverton underscores our track record in the helicopter segment where we count 7 of the Top 10 Heli Operators in the U.S. (by fleet size) as clients. We are confident that with Ramco’s one stop solution, Caverton will now harness the software’s innovative features to cut out inefficiencies, and optimize aircraft and customer management.” Ramco Aviation Software is trusted by 22,000+ users to manage 4,000+ aircraft globally. Accessible on cloud and mobile, Ramco Aviation Software continues to innovate with ‘Anywhere Apps’, significantly reducing transaction time both during aircraft-on-ground (AOG) conditions and critical aircraft turnarounds. Ramco is changing the paradigm of enterprise software with Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning based solutions, powered by cool new features such as voice-based transactions on Google Assistant or Alexa, chatbots, mail bots, HUBs and cognitive solutions. With 75+ Aviation leaders onboard, Ramco is the solution of choice for several large airlines and top heli-operators and multiple MROs around the world.  IFEOMA OKEKE