As part of efforts to increase visibility and bring its services to millions of Nigerians, Chellarams DMK, makers of popular range of Oldenburger dairy products on Thursday signed a multi-platform deal with Nigeria’s celebrity chef, Tolu Erogbogbo. In a statement BusinessDay received, the company disclosed that the deal which commences from June 2019 consists of various projects from advertising to television shows and across different communication platforms as well as in-store. Tolu Erogbogbo who is popularly known as Chef Eros comes highly recommended according to Aditya Chellarams, CEO who listed inventiveness, creativity and originality in making bravura gourmet food as part of the qualities he admires in the chef. Chef Eros will be featured in a new integrated campaign for the Chellarams DMK brand. “Chef Eros is a creative, passionate Chef, he knows how to infuse the finest ingredients sourced locally and around the world to create exotic meals,” the company statement noted. “He is a perfect ambassador for the Oldenburger brand and in best position to talk about the role of dairy in meals and for life.” Chellarams further said the company wants every potential consumer to enjoy creative mixture of its dairy products and Chef Eros is the ideal man to help communicate this. “I have great respect for the history and tradition at Oldenburger which has made the brand stand out for quality as well as healthy and nutritious family products over the years,” Chef Eros said. “I am glad to be part of this family.” Chef Eros is the founder and CEO of Ile EROS, The Cookie Jar Bakery and Eros & Gourmet Catering. He is also the brand ambassador of Shoprite and the first West African chef ambassador for the German premium home appliance brand Miele. He had been featured on CNN Africa as the next big thing to wathc and has also been featured in Forbes as the man who knows what billionaires eat for lunch. This has earned him the moniker “The Billionaires’ Chef”, some of whom are notable National and international Individuals of repute such as Aliko Dangote and Mike Adenuga. In this regard, he has had the opportunity to serve President Emmanuel Macron, Reverend TD Jakes, Lauryn Hill and many others. Eros & Gourmet’s bespoke menus constantly deliver an unforgettable culinary experience. Concurrently, Cookie Jar Bakery specializes in decadent desserts intended to delight the taste buds. Chef Eros recently opened up ILÉEROS (House of Eros), a Polished Casual restaurant in Lagos that celebrates Nigerian Cuisine, located in Lekki, Lagos, Nigeria.  