Layer3, an indigenous provider of network and IT solutions, emerged winner of the keenly contested Cloud Based Solution Provider awards at the 2019 Beacon of ICT lecture / award series held in Lagos recently. This is the second consecutive time that the robust IT company is being recognised as the best cloud solutions provider in Nigeria. Beacon of ICT Distinguished Lecture/Awards, currently in its 10th edition is widely regarded as the most prestigious annual event available in the ICT industry in Nigeria.The lecture series is aimed at charting the way forward for the country’s ICT sector while the award ceremony rewards best practices and recognizes outstanding contributions to the growth of the sector. The theme for the 2019 edition was “Telcos and Banks Partnership to Drive Financial Inclusion.” It examined efforts to empower Nigerians to boost financial growth and development. Commenting on the awards, Stephen Agogo, head business development and strategy at Layer3 said; “Layer3 Cloud is a fully automated Infrastructure–as–a-Service (IaaS) platform that has aided entrepreneurs, start-ups, businesses and organisations of all types and sizes to remotely and virtually build, manage, store and deploy diverse enterprise solutions all without the financial outlay on hardware, maintenance and replacements, retaining the ability to manage their resources themselves and most importantly giving them speed to market.” “Layer3 Cloud is the most robust and secure cloud platform available in the country and runs out of top tier data canters in Abuja and Lagos,” he added. During the award ceremony, Oyaje Idoko, CEO of Layer3 was inducted into the BoICT Hall of Fame as a recognition of his contribution to the ICT sector in Nigeria. Idoko was one of six other industry stalwarts that received the prestigious recognition and induction. Presenting the award to Layer3, Gbenga Adebayo, chairman, Association of Licensed Telecom Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), said that Layer3 is consistently reeling out innovative offerings, and that the company has the potential to be the market leader in the next five years.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson