President Muhammadu Buhari has lamented lack of cordiality in the relationship between the Executive and Legislature, under the 8th National Assembly saying that “ it wasn’t the best “ The President stated this while reviewing the relationship between the Executive arm of the government and the outgoing 8th National Assembly at Muslim breakfast meeting at the Presidential Villa, and concluded that it wasn’t the best. The President said the nation deserved better than it got under the outgoing leadership and hoped for a better working relationship between the two arms of government with the 9th National Assembly soon to come. “Relations between the Executive and the Legislature were not the best in the 8th National Assembly. I sincerely hope each one of us will do his utmost to ensure there is a better working relationship between these two arms of government in the 9th Assembly so that we can serve the people better,” He argued that the the principal task of the National Assembly “is to cooperate with the Executive so that together we can fashion policies that will lift our people out of poverty and out of illiteracy. I appeal to the Distinguished Senators and Honourable Members to subordinate all personal interests and ambitions to the imperative of working for the common good of our people.” The President congratulated the members-elect on their success in winning their constituency seats and opined that “this is a great burden and a great responsibility placed on you by your people. Our citizens are faced with challenges of poverty. “Your principal task is to cooperate with the Executive so that together we can fashion policies that will lift our people out of poverty and out of illiteracy. I appeal to the Distinguished Senators and Honourable Members to subordinate all personal interests and ambitions to the imperative of working for the common good of our people.” He assured the leaders that his doors remain open “to all of you who have genuine concerns or advice to improve the quality of governance and service delivery to our people.”
The President of the Senate, Senator Bukola Saraki assured the President that the National Assembly will maintain focus on national interest at all times. The event was attended by the Senate President, Bukola Saraki and Speaker of House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara. Others include the Deputy Senate President and the the Deputy Speaker, the majority and Minority leaders and the majority and Minority Whips and their deputies.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja