Simon Lalong, Governor of Plateau has been elected as the Chairman, Northern Governors Forum. Lalong who replaced Kassim Shettima, the outgoing Governor of Borno state was elected Friday at the meeting of the 19 Northern Governors in Kaduna. Shettima, the immediate past chairman of the forum who disclosed this in a communiqué at the end of the meeting, said the election of Lalong was based on the “peace and harmony” he has brought to the people of his state, adding that the forum has confidence that the Plateau Governor would continue to build on the achievements of its past leaders. He commended members of the forum for electing Lalong and urged them to give him all the needed support to succeed, noting that the Northern Governors will soon meet with President Muhammadu Buhari to exchange ideas on how best to tackle the insecurity ravaging the region. “The Northern States Governor’s Forum convened a meeting to deliberate on the major issues affecting the Northern States and the nation at large, particularly the current challenges of insecurity which seems to be deteriorating, despite concerted efforts by the Federal and State Government. “The Forum deliberated extensively on the nature of the insecurity currently bedeviling the region and various ways and means of dealing with the situation”, the communiqué read. According to the communiqué, the forum set up a security committee headed by Aminu Masari, Governor of Katsina State to develop a comprehensive plan of action to tackle insecurity in the North. “In order to tackle the challenges holistically in an all-encompassing manner, the Forum set up a Committee under the chairmanship of the Governor of Katsina State, Alhaji Aminu Bello Masari to inter-alia develop a comprehensive regional plan of action that could bring lasting solutions to the lingering crises. “The committee as parts of its mandate would seek audience with Mr. President and make adequate presentation to him on the true nature of the security challenges. “It would also make suggestions based on the thorough and insightful analysis and assessment of the situation on the best possible was the Federal Government to resolve the incessant. “The Forum elected the Executive Governor of Plateau State, Mr. Simon Lalong as the New Chairman of the Northern Governors’ Forum with effect from May 29, 2019”, the communiqué read.  James Kwen, Abuja