After what was, clearly, a challenging business experience in the highly competitive Nigerian telecom market, 9Mobile is emerging quickly from what it calls a transition. It is forming partnerships, strategising, charting new course and/or seeking new path to growth that will be mutually beneficial to it and its partners, writes CHUKA UROKO The resilience of a company does not consist in the size of the building it occupies, but rather in its capacity to ride the tide in the face a challenging business experience, come off stronger, pick the pieces and move on with strategies for growth. When businesses meet to strategise and seek new path to growth that will be mutually beneficial, it is usually in an atmosphere that is both somber and convivial in order to accommodate varying moods and interests. Partnerships for business relationships are formed into various reasons. Essentially, partnerships take off the heat, reduce risks, provide shoulders for partners to lean on, and increases scope and mileage of efforts, giving credence and meaning to Helen Keller’s famous statement, “alone we can do so little; together we can do so much’. These much were reflected when 9mobile, a frontline telecom comapny in Nigeria, and its partners met for the 2019 ‘Channel Partners Conference’ and strategized on business growth and sustainability across various value chains. The conference is an annual event where critical business expectations for the year are shared and reviewed to ensure that there is an alignment between the telco and its key stakeholders in the channel. This year’s meeting which was held at Eko Hotels, Victoria Island, Lagos served as an avenue to discuss emerging issues within the telecoms industry and to proffer creative solutions. Besides being a forum to discuss business, the conference which featured presentations detailing the operator’s growth plan for the year, was also a platform to celebrate the partners for their unwavering loyalty over the past 10 years. “You are a very important value chain in our business, and I’m happy that you’ve been loyal to us for over 10 years. I’m happy to see you today and I would like to express 9mobile’s appreciation to you all for your loyalty and dedication. “We have had our issues; we’re just emerging from a transition, and some of the representatives of the new owners are here. We are hopeful of changing the dynamics of this company,” Stephane Beuvelet, acting managing director, 9mobile, told their partners. Continuing, he said, “we remain an established and competitive business because of you; we all get down to work and do what we need to do to meet our customer’s needs and push the business forward. We, in turn, affirm our commitment to continue to provide innovative products, services and solutions that actually address the needs of our subscribers, while also supporting our partners to achieve their objectives.” 9mobile is already implementing bold initiatives that will guarantee optimum value to both customers and partners which is why it urges stronger cooperation from the partners going forward. The company has deployed an array of innovative brand loyalty reward programs which are currently running such as the Magic Hour Promo, Northern Promo and more recently its free WhatsApp offer. It is also optimizing its network to ensure superior quality service. Specifically, the company is enhancing its 4G penetration by launching 4G LTE network in 15 new cities across Nigeria and improving visibility. The partners have been loyal and committed to the brand which was why Ken Ogujiofor, the company’s Vice President, Consumer Sales and Service, commended them, saying, “we do not take you for granted; we always want to hear from our partners because they are important stakeholders in the business alongside our customers. We want to make sure you are comfortable and that your concerns are addressed. Our partnership has always been for growth in all directions.” Progressively, the conference got down to brass tacks with presentations on various aspects of the business by the Regional Sales Director (North), Tosin Olulana; Head, Youth Segment, Layi Onafowokan; Head, Marketing Communications, Seni Ogunkola and Head, Trade Marketing Services, Oludolapo Kehinde. The conference also looked into the company’s business focus for the year and together they charted the way forward for the business. Areas of opportunities that the partners could leverage for profitability were also highlighted. Many partners were honoured with certificates of excellence in recognition of their contributions to the growth of the resilient telco just as officers of the company and the partners celebrated its rebound.