Federal Government, in collaboration with the United Nation Development Programme (UNDP), Global Environmental Facility (GEF) has set aside $58 million to Integrated Approach Program (IAP-FS project) targeted at deepening Food Security in Nigeria. Abdullahi Abubakar, National Coordinator, National Programme Management Unit (NPMU), disclosed this at the one-day Food Commodities Stakeholders Summit aimed st advancing Inter-State Food Commodity Value Chain, on Thursday in Abuja. Abubakar said that the IAP-FS project which is a continuation of other developmental program in Agriculture is aimed at building greater community resilience to a solid agricultural financing and marketing in Nigeria. “This programme is implemented in 12 countries but not all are implemented by UNDP, some by IFAD, FAO and other United Nation Agencies. “In Nigeria, UNDP is supporting the program which is being implemented by Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development with Federal Ministry of Environment,’’ he said. Abubakar speaking further said that efforts are being made to see that local producers of rice and groundnut are encouraged to give their best in the production process “So by 2022, we will start to look at what we have done and what are the impacts we have created. “I want to tell you as at now, based on the sensitisation we have done, people have adopted some of the acclaimed production method that has been brought by this project. “We believe at the end of the season, we will see that the yield has increased and people are happy as well’’ he said. Oladipo Osibo, Programme Manager, Environment Unit for UNDP, in his remark said that the program will run for five years in 7states which includes, Kano, Katsina, Jigawa, Benue, Nassarawa, Gombe and Adamawa states. “We hope that at end of the programme, adequate and relevant decisions would be made and the country can also move forward”. Hajia Salamatu Garba, Executive Director, Women Farmers Advancement Network (WOFAN), said that WOFAN targets women development adding that agriculture in Nigeria should be demand driven especially from both women and youth. She said “We want the policy that will make them get loan for those small things they are doing and fit in the system.  Cynthia Egboboh, Abuja.