The vice president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Yemi Osinbajo will be delivering the convocation lecture of the Lagos State University (LASU). Osinbajo who will be delivering the convocation lecture titled “Centre of Excellence in African Universities: A Veritable Catalyst for Nation Building and Development at the event scheduled for Thursday, May 16, 2019. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, vice chancellor, LASU, while speaking at the pre-convocation press conference held at the 3-in-1 Building, Faculty of education, main campus, Ojo, Thursday, said the university will be awarding 57 First Class at the 23rd convocation ceremony adding that this is the highest in the history of the university. According to him, “This year’s convocation ceremony is a very unique and special one. It is so because our world-class students in their habit of healthy rivalry to be the best at what they do, have pushed themselves so hard that at this year’s convocation we will be graduating 57 First Class students. Fagbohun observes that never in the history of the University have we had it so good. “Two graduands, Ridwan Oladotun Ola-Gbadamosi from the Faculty of Engineering and Nneka Karen Enumah of the Faculty of Sciences graduated with a CGPA of 4.88 to emerge as the best graduating students,” he said. The vice chancellor said that of the 57 First Class, Faculty of Education produced 10, Faculty of Engineering two, Faculty of Management Sciences 13 and Faculty of Science 19 among others. In his word, “LASU will graduate 14, 369 with 54 obtaining diplomas, 10, 252 first degrees and 4, 063 postgraduate degrees. Aside the convocation lecture to be chaired by President of Ghana, John Mahama, the Vice Chancellor revealed that 37 academic programmes of the university were successful accredited by the National Universities Commission (NUC) thus all 70 programmes offered at the first-degree level are duly accredited. Other activities for the 23rd convocation programme between 2nd and 16th May include Coconut breaking festival, Convocation cup competition for staff, Jumat service, Special thanksgiving, command performance and convocation play.  KELECHI EWUZIE