The Federal Government has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Kiyasa Farm Limited to improve cattle breeding in the country. Nigeria’s livestock sector is a key part of the country’s quest for food security and prioritising cattle improvement activity will help attain it. Audu Ogbeh, Minister of Agriculture who signed the agreement on behalf of the Federal Government, said in a statement that for over 50 years, Nigeria has never paid enough attention to improve livestock production and this has resulted in farmers and herders clash. Ogbeh stated that Kiyasa Farm has started planning ahead on the cattle improvement programme in Sokoto and Zamfara states to compliment the Buhari administration’s efforts in growing the Nigerian livestock industry. He assured the farm that the ministry would provide them with bio-gas production machine and also provide support and assistance whenever the need arises. Similarly, the government signed another MoU with Cikasoro Farm to improve beef production in the country. Ogbeh commended the vision and foresight of Cikasoro Farm Limited for the establishment of a livestock market at Tunga Maje in Abuja to supply wholesome meat to residents, adding that this would minimise the transportation of cattle in trucks from the northern region to the southern region of the country. He stated that the government would provide the needed infrastructures to aid beef production in the country while providing technical support to the market to ensure it meets international standards. Mohammed Sambo Bashar, managing director Kiyasa Farm Ltd, said that the farm was engaging on Cattle Breeding Improvement Programme in Sokoto and Zamfara states with the aim of promoting modern beef and dairy industry in both states. Bashar said that the farm was creating necessary incentives for nomadic herders towards government efforts by providing modern facilities for training and production in new ranch initiative as transition to modern cattle farming. Also, Abubakar Cika, chief executive officer, Cikasoro Farm disclosed that the objective of establishing the livestock market was to supply wholesome meat to people in Abuja and its environs.  Josephine Okojie