There was a time in Nigeria that the preference recognised as the ‘ideal’ career path was Medicine, Law or Engineering. However, in recent times, parents are more open to encourage their children on whatever career alleyway they opt for because as time has changed, so also, the prospect of careers not considered financially rewarding or with a greater appeal has changed. For the purpose of this discourse, law is the focus. The legal profession in Nigeria has metamorphosed such that it opens up various opportunities for lawyers who in times past were mostly known for appearances in court. Today, when it comes to signing crucial documents, will preparation, sealing of business deals to mention a few, lawyers are sine qua non. In 2018, students admitted to study Law dropped by 11% to 7,490 from 8,427 in 2017, the second lowest number of admissions after Social Sciences, according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics. The figure shows the numbers admitted to study Law in Nigeria, not the number of students who applied to study Law, which goes to say that it doesn’t necessarily mean there has been a decline in the quest to be a Lawyer but a decline in the number of those admitted to study Law. It is therefore permissible to conclude from the stated premises that there are students who are still in love with the idea of being lawyers. However, young advocates in the profession are opting for other means of livelihood than practice. Many of them began but after a few years decided to search for ‘greener pastures’. The young lawyers also suffer from clients who would only prefer an experienced lawyer. In Nigeria, you have several young lawyers as event planners, musicians, MCs, actors/actresses to mention a few.  Not because they deliberately chose to but because practicing in Nigeria isn’t auspicious. You wonder how a student will go through five years of rigorous study, face the superlative inescapable Law school and end up in another line of work? Discussions with some young lawyers revealed the reasons behind the abrupt curve away from their ‘first love’. First is the issue of salaries. Sadly, they aren’t able to argue for their salary increase as they have been bamboozled with the “Gain the experience…the expose will help you” catchphrase like they do not have needs that should be met. A few complain of getting paid between N20, 000 –N50,000 monthly and it doesn’t equate to what they deserve after spending 5years in school and another year in Law school only to earn a meagre wage. This may not be the same for other financially buoyant firms but the question is, how many financially buoyant and reputable firms are available in Nigeria today? How many are willing to employ young lawyers? How many can they truly afford to employ beyond a specific number considering the massive integers seeking for job opportunities? Despite existing reforms in litigation, they have also complained of elongated litigation processes in the system while some admit their faith in the legal system as a whole in Nigeria is rickety but they remain hopeful. Quite a few complained of their superiors taking the glory when they win a case. Some who are challenged with getting a firm to work with or an organisation that needs their services, end up setting up in their cars, some at police stations waiting for anyone who needs their services and some at the court premises whilst having to put up with the disparaging ‘charge and bail’ label. Despite their daunting challenges, some senior lawyers have identified knowledge and proficiency as a hurdle with some budding advocates. Knowledge because, since they are still young in practice, they are most familiar with theory not practice, hence a deterrent factor, limiting their ability to apply their skills efficiently. They are however optimistic that they will mature to become more enlightened with time as the legal practice is not child’s play and consistent practice and hunger for growth will assist to hasten their progression in the career. The Judiciary, Nigerian Bar Association, and the government should think of ways to solve the problem and make law practice a worthwhile experience for young lawyers. Perhaps, a reform of the current structure of the profession, persistent legal tutoring, reviewing law school prospectuses and enhanced benefits for budding lawyers would help. Furthermore, the seniors in the profession need to embrace mentorship of the younger lawyers so they can mature to be reputable advocates for themselves and the nation.