Henry Ajomale, immediate past chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairmen’s Forum, has said that President Muhammadu Buhari and the party were not afraid of opposition to his administration but would rather focus on delivering on his campaign promises to Nigerians. President Buhari last February won a second term in office, defeating Atiku Abubakar, who was his closest rival and candidate of the main opposition, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Buhari secured 56 percent of the votes, compared with 41 percent for Atiku. Atiku and the PDP have, however, disputed the result of the presidential election and currently challenging the election result at the tribunal. Some leaders of the pan-Yoruba socio-Political group, Afenifere, recently threatened not to recognise a government led by Buhari after the expiration of his first term on May 29. But speaking in an interview with BusinessDay, Monday, Ajomale, who is the immediate past chairman of the APC in Lagos State, noted that there was nothing the opposition could do but to support the Buhari administration in the next four years because he was voted overwhelmingly by Nigerians. “We are not bothered about what they are doing and saying. Whether you want it or not there is nothing you can do about it, but to support Buhari because he was voted for by majority of Nigerians and the focus now is to deliver the campaign promises to Nigerians,” Ajomale said. The APC chieftain further stated that the party was confident President Buhari will equally emerge victory at the election petition tribunal, charging Nigerians to support the President. “There is nothing anybody can do now than to support Buhari; we have to support him. The man won the election and we are confident we will also win at the tribunal,” Ajomale said. On the areas the President should give priority in his second term, Ajomale advised President Buhari to intensify the anti-graft war, give security the needed attention, while revamping the economy. “The president should fight corruption more so that they would not continue to steal our money,” he said.  Iniobong Iwok