The Nigerian Army on Saturday raised alarm over alleged plans by some Nigerians who are conniving with foreigners to scuttle the country’s democracy and May 29th inauguration. The Army, in a statement, alleged that these group of persons are making concerted efforts inducing ISWAP)/Boko Haram terrorists and bandits with funds and other logistic supports. Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Sagir Musa, a Colonel, said the statement that the group is “determined to cause mischief and exacerbate the security situation in this country in particular and West African sub-region.” “Their body language and unguarded utterances seem to be in tandem with the above and imply tacit support for the criminals. For example, credible source has shown that some individuals are hobnobbing with Boko Haram terrorists, while others are deliberately churning falsehood against the security agencies with a view to setting the military against the people and the government,” the Army spokesman said. “They are also demoralising troops and security agencies through false accusations and fake news. Therefore, it has become necessary to inform the public and warn such persons and groups to desist as the consequences of their actions would be calamitous to themselves and our great country.” Musa said added: “Some of these mischievous elements thought that we would not have safe and successful general elections, but were proved wrong, hence they want to derail the scheduled handing over later this month and to scuttle the democratic process in the country.” He said the Army had similarly observed that “foreign interests are also working assiduously to cause disaffection and divide the coalition Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) to give room for the so-called Islamic State for West African Province (ISWAP) and its defeated local franchise, Boko Haram terrorists group to resurrect.” Musa said in the statement that the Nigerian Army had confidence in the efforts by the Federal Government of Nigeria to sustain and reinvigorate the MNJTF “to continue its good work,” and reiterated the Army’s resolve “not relent in clearing the visages and remnants of Boko Haram terrorists and their sympathisers.” Justifying the statement on the alleged plot by the unidentified group, spokesman declared that the Nigerian Army is a stakeholder in the country’s national security and sustenance of democracy in the nation. “Additionally, we are making this statement because the military, particularly the Nigerian Army, has always been called upon to intervene in conflict situations in order to resolve crises in most cases when they get worse, while the public expect miracles,” he explained. He restated the Army’s “unalloyed loyalty to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria” and its determination, more than ever before, to continue to uphold the constitution and defend the territorial integrity of this nation from both external and internal aggression. “Nigeria is a sovereign country with clearly established judicial system, therefore all aggrieved persons and groups should take advantage of that and resolve differences amicably,” he declared.  Stella Enenche, Abuja