Kwara State Governor, Abdulfatah Ahmed has dissolved the State Executive Council with effect from Wednesday, 22nd May 2019. According to a statement issued in Ilorin and signed by the Deputy Chief Press Secretary to Governor Ahmed, Demola Olanrewaju, special advisers, senior special assistants, special assistants, and members of boards of parastatals are also affected by the dissolution. The statement quoted Governor Ahmed as thanking members of the dissolved state executive council, his former aides and all other political office holders for their invaluable service to his administration and the people of Kwara State. Governor Ahmed also wished the former commissioners and aides all the best in their future endeavors. Meanwhile, a former Secretary to the Kwara State Government, Sakariyah Onimago, has been confirmed as the new Chairman of the State Civil Service Commission. The confirmation was made by the State House of Assembly on Wednesday. Onimago, who was also a former Commissioner in the state was confirmed along with other nominees and members of other two statutory Commissions after a screening which lasted for over three hours. Others confirmed by the House as members of the Civil Service Commission are; Samuel Bamisaiye, Mohammed Koro, Issa Kayode Abdul, Dele Kayode, Saidu Issa Abdullahi and Mohammed Sanni, as members of the Kwara Independent Electoral Commission (KWASElC) The House also confirmed Lukman Owolewa, as Chairman of the State Fiscal Responsibility Commission, with Mohammed Sulyman Atolagbe, Danjuma Sabi and Babatunde Abdul Raheem, as members. The House however stood down the screening of Taiye Eleja as the Chairman of the Kwara Independent Electoral Commission (KWASElC) following his absence at the screening. The Assembly did not give a specific date for the screening of the nominee. The Speaker, Ali Ahmad, directed the Clerk of the House, Halimah Perogi to formerly inform Governor AbdulFatah Ahmed on the screening and approval of the appointment of the nominees.  SIKIRAT SHEHU, Ilorin