In the quest to boost literacy and improve skills in foreign exchange (Forex) trading amongst Nigerians, MBA Forex limited in partnership with AFX group and Fintec global market seek to open more secure non-banking liquidity platforms for the Nigerian market and African as a whole. Speaking at a press conference organized by MBA Forex in which representatives from AFX group and Fintec global market were present, the operators of MBA Forex Institute stated they had opened a global window between the Forex market and Africa. Maxwell Odum, CEO MBA Forex, explained, “we intend to start in Nigeria, so Nigerians can benefit from the trillion dollar market as they herald the first national Forex financial investors summit where a lot on the foreign exchange market would be X-rayed showing the general public how to trade in the Forex market and how it works.” The 2019 MBA Forex financial investors summit was birthed by the recent business partnership between MBA Forex and AFX Group who now is the parent body of MBA Forex limited. This year’s MBA Forex FIS is sub titled, “Step up the gear to financial freedom” a wakeup call to all Nigerians to embrace Forex investment business opportunities, which has been proven over the years by several big players to be the biggest liquidity market in the world; trading over 6 trillion dollars daily. He explained that unlike some other Forex institutions, MBA Forex is registered under CAC, licenced and under the supervision of the EFCC to ensure safety, check and balance in the operations of the institution.  “We are doing all these to show that we have Nigerians at heart, secure investments and ensure no one get his fingers burnt as a common slogan in forex trading,” Odum asserted.  “Our partnership with AFX is because they have all it takes to accommodate the Nigerian market and provide guarantee and security of funds,” Odum added.  Explaining the synergy between Fintec global market and MBA forex, “every student of the forex institute need a platform to be able to execute trading skills learnt in the institute and that is what we are bringing to the table,” Joel Adoki, Country Manager, Fintec Global Market stated  According to him, every successful Forex institution or financial institution needs a financial program that will give them a proper access in the financial market and give them updated knowledge that will enable them trade electronically. This they intend to make possible by foreign partner AFX group who are supplying the software and programs that is up to date.  AFX on the other hand, a non-banking liquidity provider from the UK is said to help MBA forex separate funds of the company from that of the client and also acts as regulators to the institute to ensure efficiency.  Meanwhile, Claude Harvard, Business development/ sales associate at AFX group explained that despite the downward pressure against the naira, through partnership with MBA forex, Nigerian would be taught skills on our to hedge during FX trading.  “Whether a currency value is under pressure or not, we as forex traders see opportunity in all movements in the space and this is the knowledge we intend to pass on to Nigerians,” Harvard stated.  With the successful completion of the investor’s banquet in Port Harcourt, with over 3000 investors in attendance, the company further notified the media of its Lagos version which will be holding on the 4th of May, 2019.  Gbemi Faminu & David Ibidapo