The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on Thursday night urged the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) to strengthen its commitment in enhancing the level and standards of professional in the banking sector. Aishah Ahmad, deputy governor, financial systems stability directorate, said this after she was conferred with an honorary fellow award by the CIBN. The CIBN on Thursday at its extra ordinary fellowship investiture formally conferred its honorary fellowship awards on six distinguished bankers in recognition of their contributions to the banking industry and the economy. Others who were conferred with the same award were  Edward Adamu, deputy governor, corporate services, Peter Amangbo, managing director/CEO, Zenith Bank plc, Tony Okpanachi, managing director/CEO, Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN), Agbaje Segun, managing director/CEO, GTBank plc, Hassan Usman, managing director/CEO Jaiz Bank plc, and Bade Adeshina, Chairman, Goldfield Group. “I am honoured like other honourees to be conferred with this fellowship, the responsibility is for us to conduct ourselves both in our personal and professional life to these high standards, to be role models and mentors to other professionals in the banking industry and also to support the Institute in its broad activities in terms of building capacity of bankers and their professionalism”, Ahmad said. Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, chairman of Coronation Capital Nigeria limited, while speaking on the “Ethical Dilemma in Financial Institutions: The Way Forward”, told bankers to develop strong moral standard to deal with ethical dilemma. Choosing the right part when faced with an ethical dilemma is not easy. He charged the participants to begin to ensuring that Nigerian banking profession resolve ethical dilemma in a way that contribute positively to building a great nation. Aig-Imoukhuede who was the guest speaker at the CIBN extra ordinary investiture said the role of the banker has grown beyond the traditional function of managing the finance of the customer to include other roles such as media, celebrity, politician, philanthropist, religious leader, among others. In his remarks, General Yakubu Gowon, former head of State, Federal Republic of Nigeria, said the Nigerian banking and finance industry has in recent time been plagued with frauds and unethical practices. He was concerned that no day passes without reports of frauds and other unethical practices in the industry. This constitutes a big threat to the values of trust and professionalism which ought to be the basic principles of the banking industry. “I encourage you all to keep up your good works and join hands with your Institute, to ensure that the Nigerian banking and finance industry becomes safe again for all stakeholders”, Gowon said. Uche Olowu, president/Chairman of Council, said the banking profession today does not command respect as it used to, adding that concerted efforts must be made to steer it back to its rightful position. To achieve this, he said “we must be sure that both the current and next generation of bankers are men and women of highest professional and personal integrity and honesty, trusted and respected by the banking public alike. All stakeholders in the industry should join hands to help restore the reputation and standing of the banking profession in the society”.  HOPE MOSES-ASHIKE