For the even development of Nigeria, particularly in the hitherto civil war ravaged South-East zone of the country, there is need for the House of Representatives to pass the South East Development Commission Bill. The long title of the bill is: ‘A Bill for an Act to Establish the South-East Development Commission to Serve as a Catalyst to Develop the Commercial Potentials of the South-East, Receive and Manage Funds from Allocation of the Federation for the Rehabilitation, Reconstruction, Reparation for Houses and lost Business of Victims of the Civil War and Address any Other Environmental or Developmental Challenges, and for Related Matters (HB.1626)’. The Commission, which would be funded by 15percent of the Federal Allocation from States within the region; Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo States shall among other things, formulate policies and guidelines for the development of the South-East region. Conceive, plan and implement in accordance with the set rules and regulations, projects and programmes for the sustainable development of the South-East in the field of roads, education, health facilities, employment, water supply, electricity and commerce. Tackle ecological and environmental problems that arise from the soil erosion problems and other environmental challenges in the South-East and advice Federal Government and member states on the prevention and control of the erosion and environmental challenges. Identify factors inhibiting the development of the South-East and assist the member states in the formulation and implementation of the resources of the South-East. The enactment of the South -East Development Commission Bill will help to rebuild the South-East and provide opportunity for the people to display their talent and contribute immensely to the development of the country. The South -East geopolitical zone was worst hit by the 30 months old Nigerian civil war between 1967 and 1970 following cessation attempts by the then Governor of South Eastern Region, the late Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu. At end of the war, the then Head of State, Yakubu Gowon declared no victor, no vanquished and quickly introduced the policy of Reconciliation, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation (3Rs) of the South-East to majorly reintegrate the people. Unfortunately, however, the 3Rs policy failed not too long after it had begun, a development that might have made the National Assembly to propose the South-East Development Commission Bill similar to the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and recently, the North East Development Commission (NEDC) which board has been inaugurated with N10 billion take-off grants. While the Senate has already passed the bill, it has just scaled through second reading in the Green Chambers of the National Assembly and referred to the Committee of the whole for further legislative action. This Bill was killed in the House of Representatives in 2017 but almost two years after, Senate, the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly  reintroduced the bill which passed first, second and finally third reading and sent it to the House of Representatives, the Lower Chamber for concurrence in tandem with Nigeria’s bicameral legislature practice. Like in 2017, the House is at it again with the Bill as it took several hours of arguments and counter arguments for and against the Bill before it passed second reading and it has not been brought back for third reading after one week even as the 8th Assembly is left with about two weeks to exit. During the fierce debate that almost tore the House apart along regional and party lines, Mohammed Monguno from Borno State, who read the Bill as the Acting Majority Leader, urged the members to support the Bill. Monguno argued that, “since after the civil war, there is no concerted effort for the rehabilitation of the infrastructure that was destroyed in the South-East, that’s the essence of this Bill. “You are all aware that because of Boko Haram, our infrastructure in the northeast was destroyed. And this House in its wisdom decided with unanimity to support the North East Development Commission that has today hit the ground running. Mr. Speaker, what is good for the goose is also good for the gander. “So, what is good for the North East is also good for the South East because infrastructure has been destroyed. Yes, the three R that was rejected was a stopgap measure. It is against this backdrop that the Senate passed this bill. So, I am also urging my colleagues to support this bill”.
But Hassan Shakarau from Kaduna State, not in support of the Bill, warned against duplicity and wanton creation of Commissions, hence if not checked can become a demand from all geopolitical zones. “If we continue like this, very soon we will have commission for every zone. My take is that we should find a way of taking care of these anomalies like this so that we don’t end up setting commissions for issues that we can prevent”, he said. Openly, Aminu Suleiman from Kano State asked the House to kill the Bill, recalling that it had been rejected by the House in 2017 and it does not matter whether it emanated from the Senate. “This Bill was brought before this Chamber and it was debated through. It was stepped down. I do understand. We should look at Bill on the thorough objectives of Bills. I would want to plead without any sentiment that this Bill should not go”, Suleiman maintained. Dousing the mounting tension and anxiety on the uncertainty of the passage of the Bill, Abdulraq Namdas from Adamawa State appealed to members to reconsider the Bill.
The House Spokesman said, “I appeal to my colleagues that they should actually reconsider. If the Senate feels that there should be rehabilitation, I think we should consider it”. In the same vein, Edwards Pwajok from Plateau State re-emphasised the imperative of unity through the Bill as the issue of replicating commissions was even necessary if that was the only way to develop Nigeria and get it working again. “There is nothing wrong for us to debate it. Secondly, it is coming from the Senate. Let’s pass this Bill for reasons of equity. Let us look at issues on their merit. Are we saying that there are no developmental challenges in the south-east? We should pass this Bill to send a message that Nigeria is one”, he said. On the other hand, Saheed Fijabi from Oyo State, suggested that there should be a national development commission for the entire country instead of creating them for zones. According to him, “Instead of having the commission, let’s have what is called Nigerian Development Commission”. In his submission, Chukwuemeka Ujam from Enugu State, said the Bill, “is not only about the civil war but other environmental challenges. I appeal to my colleagues to support this bill”. Similarly, Sam Onuigbo from Abia State stated that “the reason is simple. Our colleagues have considered and passed this bill. It is not a bill that is based on sentiments but realities. It is not an issue that is bothered on the civil war. “The South-East has serious environmental challenges. Another one is this: when we are seated like this, one zone should not create the impression that the other group is not… please, let us join hands and ensure that this bill is passed”. Nkiru Onyejiocha from Abia State said: “I want to appeal to my colleagues to ensure that this Bill is passed. We should be looking at what brings us together. Please, let’s pass this Bill. Nigeria and posterity will remember us.” Randolf Brown from Rivers State appealed that the Bill be passed, saying, “I want to lend my voice to the very important Bill. It is important because people want development for necessary infrastructure and potentials of the southeast. So, please, in the name of God, let this Bill pass”.
Ossia Nicholas-Ossai from Delta State, moved that the bill should be passed with the speed of light. “I wholeheartedly support this Bill. Why? This critical issue is not on sentiments but on the intention- the issue of environmental degradation. The northeast had a problem and every Nigerian resolved to support the northeast.” “Mr. Speaker, every nook and cranny of the South-East is ravaged by erosion. What we should be talking about is to pass the Bill with the speed of light and not to oppose. I am not talking about the issue of the civil war. We have said that the National Assembly is a unifying institution and we have to do that. This Commission is one”, he said. For Eucharia Azodo from Anambra State and Nnenna Ukeje from Abia State, “there is nothing in this Bill, in the development of southeast that takes away the development of any other zone in Nigeria”. Hassan Saleh from Benue State argued that, “this was a region that was devastated by war. I just left the village of former Vice President, Alex Ekwueme village last weekend, I saw erosion everywhere. If we are speaking here as leaders, then we must begin to throw away those religious and tribal sentiments. Let’s pass this bill now. We must promote peace and so, let’s pass this bill with the speed of light”. Similarly, Yakubu Barde from Kaduna State said that the people of south-east should be incorporated in the scheme of things as, “a lot of harm was done to the people of the southeast. Mr. Speaker, I am in support of this bill and we should pass it”. Abdulmuni Jubrin from Kano State said, “I want to support this Bill. I look at this Bill from a bigger picture, from a historical perspective. There is a chunk of underdevelopment in that region. They are part of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “I call on my colleagues that we should rally round, show the people of southeast that they are part of us. If we are talking about finance, Nigeria can fund developments. Let’s rise above ethnic sentiments and get this Bill passed”.  James Kwen, Abuja