The Nigerian Association of Retired People (NARP50+), a non-governmental organisation has partnered with Gero Care to provide adequate healthcare for Nigerians above the age of 50. The initiative which kicked-off on Tuesday, entitles them to regular doctor home. Ebi Ofrey, a medical doctor and co-founder of Gero Care came up with the initiative after his father had a stroke and needed regular attention. In one year, he successfully built Gero Care to become a global brand with over 700 users on the platform today.  Ofrey and Olubunmi Sodade, the executive trustee for NARP50+ at Impact Hub Lagos signed a partnership agreement on Tuesday that will see both companies’ subscribers access benefits at a discounted rate. “The agreement will go a long way to assist Nigerians that are above 50 as they are most time neglected in a country like this. Most of them struggle with health issues which makes it difficult for them to do what they want after retirement and in a mobile world like this which we live in today you can get medical services with the click of a button once clients create an account on the Gerocare platform and enter the details of the patient they intend to sign up and  pay, their patients are immediately matched with a doctor closest to them who will provide them regular home visits,’’ Ofrey said. The companies promised to ensure that Nigerians above 50 get adequate care, considering that aged people tend to demonstrate a shift in priorities, especially when it relates to sustained economic viability, good health and social support and participation. Gero Care in 2018 won the African Innovation Summit top 50 Business Innovations in Africa and Top 30 African HealthCare Innovation Award this year, presented by the World Health Organization. Both Companies could be building a structure that will see that a nation like Nigeria with over 33 million people over 50 years, get adequate care in a country where there is little or no structured support, such as social security, integration programmes, elderly care centres e.t.c. 