T he new “Avengers: Endgame” movie earned a whooping  N188.2 million in ticket sales, last weekend, figures from the Cinema Exhibitors Association of Nigeria (CEAN) has showed. The movie sales in its debut weekend which started from Friday 26th, 2019 exceeded the rest of the top four movies shown which are N6.2 million from Little, N3.4 million from Knockout, N3.1million  from Shazam and N1.0 million from Capitan Marvel. It also accounted for about 94 percent of the total of N207.4 million from the top 20 movies seen in that weekend. Nigerians could not hide their excitement over the movie as the cinemas all over the country were crowded. “People were struggling for tickets. Even to book it online was tough as tickets were sold out even before the scheduled time for d movie,” Olumide Akintoye, a web designer said. But others who were opportune to see the movie said that it was thrilling and worth the money they spent to see it. “It was thrilling due to the action and special effects and sad due to the storyline but also funny because of the characters, comments and gestures.” Ruth Udembal, a writer said. Recently seeing movies in cinemas seemed to be the new ‘thing in town’ and this is aside from its entertainment values, movie-going is quickly becoming a lifestyle in which people go to the cinemas with their loved ones and friends to see movies and relax. Movie ticket prices usually range from N1, 000- N3, 000 across cinemas depending on the packages that come with it such as complimentary drinks and popcorn among others. The major film distributors across cinemas in Nigeria are FilmOne, Silverbird Film, Geneis Deluxe cinemas and Metro Classic. A new cinema era began in 2004 with the launch of a series of modern cinema houses by the Silverbird Group and since then launch of the group, new cinemas like Ozone, Filmhouse and Genesis Deluxe have launched and are playing important roles in the evolution of the Nigerian film industry. Also the Avengers: Endgame movie made box office history by taking a record-breaking $1.2billion in global ticket sales in its opening run. The Disney movie became the fastest film ever to break the $1billion barrier in just five days. Endgame is the 22nd offering in the Marvel Studios superhero franchise. Its opening takings smashed the previous global debut record of $640million set by last year’s Avengers: Infinity War. In the United States of America alone, it brought in a record $350million, and also enjoyed the United Kingdom and Ireland’s biggest opening ever with takings of £43.7million. CEAN is an association of cinema owners, operators and managers incorporated by the Corporate Affairs Commission of Nigeria on February 13, 2018, and is meant to promote and protect the value of cinema exhibition in Nigeria.  BUNMI BAILEY