Governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode, on Monday, said recent political experience as Governor of Lagos State has made him wiser. Ambode while speaking with State House Correspondents, Abuja, shortly after a closed door meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari, in apparent reference to his political trajectory, said he is now “politically wiser now” According to him” We did our best and, most importantly, the projects we did were people-friendly and people-centered. I just think a lot more people have enjoyed the benefits and dividends of democracy than we actually met it. And that gives me joy that we were able to touch lives. “Wherever you find yourself just make a positive difference to people and Nigerians, that is the whole essence of service. I’m grateful that I had that opportunity.” In an apparent reference to his political trajectory in Lagos state, where he was allegedly schemed out of a second term bid, Ambode said the experience “has afforded him an opportunity to review his style from being a technocrat in government to a seasoned politician. “You see, every politician learns every day. The fact remains that I came in as a technocrat so I used to call myself a techno-politician, but I think I am politically wiser now. I am more of a politician than a technocrat now.” Ambode is the first Lagos governor that will not be returning for a second term after he lost the governorship ticket of the party in the state. The National Leader of All Progressive Congress (APC) Bola Tinubu had anointed Babajide Sanwoolu, to succeed Ambode as the new state governor. Responding on his mission to the villa, he said, “You will recall that on the 25th of April, Mr President paid an official visit to Lagos State and he commissioned some of our projects. It is just significant for me to come officially on behalf of all Lagosians and show appreciation, thank him physically and wish him well during this Ramadan period and thank him for finding time and deeming it fit to commission those projects. “Those projects are projects that will actually touch the lives of Nigerians and we are happy Mr President was able to share his time with us and we are grateful.” On what he wants to be remembered for as he leaves office in a couple of days, the governor said, “Well, in another 16 days or so we will be leaving office but what is important is that I was able to have that opportunity to be elected as governor of Lagos State and to touch humanity in a way that I deem it.”  Tony Ailemen, Abuja