Not many Nigerians were aware that Senate President Bukola Saraki, acted as President of Nigeria from 12 midnight of May 28th to 10.30am on May 29th, 2019 when President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo took their oath of office for the second term. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, himself, a Constitutional Lawyer and teacher, had while speaking at the post- inauguration dinner, said Buhari’s first tenure which expired at 12 midnight of May 28th, had created a vacuum According to him, “Something interesting happened earlier today. I am a lawyer and a law teacher and I like to test and interrogate legal scenarios. “At one minute past midnight today. The four-year term of Mr. President and I ended by effluxion of time. So, from one minute past 12 of last night, May 29 to about 10:30 am when we were sworn in for a second term there was no President or Vice President. Chapter 6. Part 1. Section 146, of the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria, which deals with the “discharge Of Functions Of President” as amended, indicates in sub section 2) that “Where any vacancy occurs in the circumstances mentioned in subsection (1) of this section during a period when the office of Vice-President is also vacant, the President of the Senate shall hold the office of President for a period of not more than three months, during which there shall be an election of a new President, who shall hold office for the unexpired term of office of the last holder of the office.” 3) Where the office of Vice-President becomes vacant:- (a) by reason of death or resignation, impeachment, permanent incapacity or removal in accordance with section 143 or 144 of this Constitution; (b) by his assumption of the office of President in accordance with subsection (1) of this section” But Osinbajo stated that “Interestingly nothing went wrong, all was okay. When such a situation arises it is the Senate President who acts as President. So, when I arrived at Eagle Square this morning some may have noticed that the Senate President and I were enjoying a joke. He said to me jokingly “you better be careful you know I am the acting President now.” So, we thank Mr Senate President for not doing anything funny.” The Vice President who was accompanied to the event by his wife Dolapo, while also speaking on their campaign promises, warned that Nigerians are expecting the party to fulfil its campaign promises “As you know, our campaign slogan was ‘Next Level’. And you know that very few people forget campaign promises, even those who are closest to you. My cook in Lagos as soon as he saw me after we won the elections started to sing “everything to the Next Level”. I didn’t know how to respond because I knew that the chap was thinking of a next level salary. “By the way, it is not just junior staff who are always talking about the Next Level. General Gowon, a few minutes ago, was telling me that he asked Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the APC Chairman, why he was not wearing his customary Khaki shirt and trousers and of course the Comrade pointed out that this is Next Level. “But the worst example of this Next Level is a rude fellow who said to me “you people promised change when you came and after you resumed office you started saying change begins with you. Let me warn that Lai Mohammed, if he tries Next Level begins with you…I will kidnap him”. He however noted that the beauty of democracy is the orderly and civilised process of transition. “But perhaps more importantly is the sanctity of and respect for the will and choice of the people. “On February 23rd the Nigerian people freely made a choice to re-elect President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term in office. It was that choice that we celebrated with pomp and pageantry this morning. “We are grateful to the almighty God for His grace by which this was possible and the Nigerian people for trusting us yet again; that trust will not be betrayed. “And so, on behalf of Mr President, please accept our deepest gratitude for your support and presence here this evening. The best years of Nigeria begin today, and by the Grace of God all of us will live to enjoy the coming years and many more. The event was attended by former Nigerian Head State, Yakubu Gowon, Senate President, Bukola Saraki, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha Others include Chairman of the APC Adams Oshiomhole, and Governors of Kogi and Edo states, Yahaya Bello and Godwin Obaseki , respectively.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja