The newly sworn-in Adamawa State governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, has said his government would restore the long-lost hope in democracy in the state, promising that his administration would set the pace for good governance in Nigeria and become the standard by which governance is measured in the country. Fintiri said he was fully aware of the huge expectations and task of making Adamawa work again that was already hanging over his head. The governor said however that he would not hesitate to mobilise the diverse human and natural resources towards actualising the much-desired economic and social development the state had been deprived of for a long time. Fintiri made the remarks Wednesday, during his inauguration in Yola, the state capital. He said the success he recorded in 2014 in three months as an acting governor that endeared him to the people of Adamawa state as someone that could be relied upon, would be a child’s play compared to what he intended to do for the state in the next four years. “My aspiration for Adamawa state is to be listed among the comity of best states not just in Nigeria but the world,” he said. “My dream is to restore it to its original name and glory as the state of Beauty and Hospitality. The central message is, think progress, think development, put Adamawa first,” he said. “Hopefully, we will set the pace and become the standard by which others measure themselves.” The governor promised that payment of salaries, pension and gratuity on time, as well as yearly increments and promotions shall be routine. He said the government would strive to build a robust and harmonious relationship with labour based on the trust and experiences accumulated over the years. “Politics is over and the stage is now set for the extra-ordinary job of making Adamawa State work again,” the governor said. Fintri said he was aware of the challenges and difficulties that lay ahead, but declared that nothing could stop the momentum of a determined people with a purpose to accomplish. “Today is therefore a call to action in the face of the tremendous support needed to make change a reality for everyone. How well we respond to this call will determine how far we will go in meeting the expectations,” he said. Pledging to provide the leadership that would be required to make the change work for the good of all, he said the change would balance policy and politics, and eschew might over right and treat all citizens as equals. While reeling out his plans to revamp Adamawa, the governor said: “I do not claim to have all the answers, therefore each and every one who desires to have a say in how the state is governed is welcomed to do so but to do so constructively.” “On my watch, security of lives and property shall be the primary responsibility of government, while the rights of citizens, justice, equity, merit, competence and diligence shall prevail.” On the worrying security situation that has bedevilled the state, he said: “Let me sound a note of warning to the local cult group currently terrorizing our neighbourhood not to test our resolve but to shape up or ship out.”  Nedo Habila, Yola