EM-ONE Energy Solutions has signed a contract with Nigeria’s Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing to design and install a 1.52 MW solar plant with a battery storage capacity of 2.26 MWh at the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing. The solar power plant will be mounted on carport & rooftop canopies and will generate 2.45 GWh of energy annually; reducing the Ministry’s energy dependence on non-renewable power source by 71% and reducing CO2 generation by 2,600 tonnes. The company says the solution it is providing is a fully integrated and scalable solution which can be increased in capacity as demand increases. “EM-ONE will also complete an electrical retrofit on four office buildings within the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing headquarters for energy efficiency upgrades. The retrofit will replace old electrical appliances and connections with energy efficient ones – reducing the complex’s consumption by 40%,” the company said in a release. It further said the system will use a combination of tier-1 technologies who have partnered with EM-ONE to work closely on this flagship projects’ delivery. The advanced microgrid and energy storage system (ESS) for this project is provided by US firm Tesla, while the energy efficiency components are provided by Schneider Electric. “The project will be the first of Nigeria’s Federal Government office complexes to use renewable energy as their primary power source. Once completed, the system will save millions of naira every year on a cleaner and more reliable power supply. This forms part of the federal government’s commitment to renewable energy and mini grid policy,” Babatunde Raji Fashola, minister of Power, Works and Housing said. Mir Islam, EM-ONE’s CEO said, “This is an exciting project for EM-ONE, we have a vision of making Nigeria an energy surplus country by developing self-sustaining energy producers that not only generate electricity for their own consumption but also export additional energy to the national grid. We are looking forward to working with the Federal Ministry and our valued technology partners on this pioneering project” EM-ONE has been operating in Africa’s power sector for over 20 years and successfully delivered a portfolio of 20+ MW solar microgrid and containerized solutions across Nigeria that provide uninterrupted power to hospitals, universities, clinics and day schools to multiple state facilities. Some of the company’s projects include the turnkey EPC of 3 proprietary standard solar micro grids at three General Hospitals across Borno State and design consultancy, project management, test and commissioning services for 213 off-grid solar systems with integrated backup battery banks and remote monitoring systems installed at 11 Primary Health Centres and 175 secondary schools across 10 Local Government Areas.