President Muhammadu Buhari’s meeting with Security Chiefs on Thursday ended as usual without concrete actions on the fate of the kidnaped father-in-law to the President’s Aide De Camp and others still languishing in the kidnappers enclave The Father -in-law of Aide de Camp to President Muhammadu Buhari, Musa Umar, has spent nine days in the kidnappers’ dean having been kidnaped on Wednesday 1st of May, at his Daura resident in Katsina state. He is the father of Fatima Musa, wife of Mohammed Abubakar, an Army Colonel and Aide de Camp, ADC, to President Muhammadu Buhari Despite these regular meetings, several Nigerians are either being killed or kidnapped for money while security agencies’ response has been unable to reduce the attacks on innocent citizens
But the Chief of Naval Staff, Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas , a Rear Admiral, who briefed State House Correspondents at the Presidential Villa after the meeting presided over by President Buhari, however claimed that kidnapping has been on the decline Speaking on the fate of the kidnapped District Head of Daura and Father – in – law to the President’s ADC, the Naval Chief said “Serious efforts are being made, key suspects have been arrested, adding that “it is hoped that in a short while, those behind the heinous crime will be brought to book” “ You will recall during the last meeting, that the IGP was directed to ensure that the issue is addressed and consequently various operations were set up; Puff Adder was one of the strategies. “With the setting up of that operations there have been a remarkable drop in the number of kidnappings. “What normally would attract attention is when a key person in government perhaps is kidnapped. “On the whole, the number of kidnappings has dropped and generally I think the security situation is improving. He disclosed that the meet just basically to appraise Mr President of the security situation generally after his short vacation abroad. According to him, “ security agencies briefed him on what has been happening with particular emphasis on the proliferation of small arms and what the various agencies are doing to curtail the consequences of this proliferation. “He has also given directives that the agencies should do much more to ensure that Nigerians go to bed and wake up feeling healthy and confident that their security is guaranteed. The meeting which is being held behind closed doors, is used to review the state of security across the country , while the Service Chiefs brief the President on current security situation in the country. The meeting was attended by Defence Minister Mansur Dan-Ali, minister of defence, and Babagana Monguno, national security adviser. Others include Chief of Defence Staff, Gabriel Olonisakin,  chief of Army staff, Tukur Buratai, chief of Air Staff, Sadique Abubakar, chief of Naval Staff, Ibok-Ete Ekwe Iba and the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, amongst other top government officials.  Tony Ailemen