After months of upsets, drama and nailbiting moments, the European soccer season comes to a climax with the UEFA Champions League final this Saturday, taking place in the city of Madrid. Last season runners-up, Liverpool take on Tottenham Hotspurs in an all-English cracker at the famous Atletico Madrid’s Wanda Metropolitano stadium. Tottenham are in their first ever Champions League final while Liverpool are last season’s runners-up and will be hoping to clinch their sixth European title. Both teams mounted spectacular semi-final comebacks to reach the final, each recovering from three goals down. While Liverpool won 4-0 in their second leg against Barcelona at Anfield to progress 4-3 on aggregate, Lucas Moura’s second-half hat-trick at the Johan Cruyff Arena gave Spurs a 3-2 victory at Ajax, and an away-goals success. In terms of head-to-head, Tottenham and Liverpool have met in 170 previous matches across all competitions. However, the Reds have dominated the rivalry, claiming 79 wins compared to 48 for Spurs, while 43 matches have been drawn. Here we analyze the possible outcomes from this weekend’s UEFA Champions League final. Sixth European Cup for Liverpool Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool side are bidding to win their sixth European Cup and the first since the unforgettable night in Istanbul in 2005. Should they triumph, Liverpool will go above Bayern Munich and Barcelona on the list of winners, behind only AC Milan with 7 wins and Real Madrid holding 13 wins. Harry Kane Absence Tottenham will be without their star player Harry Kane. The England captain has not played since an ankle ligament injury suffered against Manchester City on April 9.  Whether he will be ready to start in a game of such intensity is another matter. Spurs manager, Mauricio Pochettino, says it is a decision he is giving a lot of thought because he knows it could define the game. Liverpool’s Rock Solid Defense Liverpool’s defence, marshaled by Premier League player of the year, Virgil Van Dijk, will be ready to stop the attacking assault from Tottenham. Van Dijk has been in fine form this season and helped his side keep a clean sheet against aBarcelona side that parade Lionel Messi and Luis Suarez. Liverpool’s energetic fullbacks have been a constant feature in Liverpool’s thrilling season. Trent Alexander-Arnold, at right-back, and Andrew Robertson, on the left, are aggressive in defence and consistently produce excellent deliveries for their attackers. In the semi-final victory over Barcelona, both played their part. Eyes on the Trophy After losing one match all season, accumulating 97 points and still finishing second behind Manchester City, Liverpool could be forgiven for being unlucky to win the Premier league title.The club also reached the Champions League final last season, only to lose to Real Madrid. In its run to the Champions League final this season, Liverpool may feel fate is on its side. Few gave it hope after losing the first leg of the semi-final to Barcelona 3-0 at the Camp Nou, but Liverpool did exactly what was needed in the second leg. Many will feel the club deserves a trophy for their performances this season. Spurs seeking to make history It’s been a difficult season for Spurs with a delayed stadium move and no new signings. Yet, they finished fourth on the Premier League table and the run to the Champions League final is a dream bonus. Spurs were five minutes from being eliminated in the group stage but went on to defeat Borussia Dortmund and, in dramatic fashion, Manchester City and Ajax. Spurs may never get a better chance to win European club soccer’s biggest prize. Spurs have never won Europe’s premier club competition. It won the UEFA Cup (now Europa League) twice, in 1972 and 1984, but this is the club’s first appearance in a Champions League final. Should it triumph, Spurs will be the sixth English side to win the European Cup, joining Liverpool, Manchester United, Nottingham Forest, Chelsea and Aston Villa. Summary Spurs have won only one of its last 14 matches against Liverpool in all competitions this season. Liverpool boss, Jurgen Klopp has again proved himself a master of motivation this season. His side kept pace with Manchester City until the final game and overcame Bayern Munich and Barcelona enroute to the Champions League final. Pochettino is playing down Spurs’ chances, pointing out it is the underdog and on a different level financially. Of course, five years since he joined the club, Pochettino will be desperate to see his excellent work rewarded with a trophy and will be ready to inspire his team. Anthony Nlebem