Duale, Ovia & Alex-Adedipe, a commercial law firm, says it intends to drive investment in Nigeria technology space through its 2nd annual business series, which will be held at Wheatbaker Hotel May 20, 2019. The event, themed ‘Investment in Nigeria’s Telecommunication Media and Technology Market,’ will bring stakeholders together to have conversations around means to develop the sector, drive investments and seek ways to grow the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) through technology. Speaking at a press conference to announce the event, Adeleke Alex Adedipe, a partner at the law firm, said the breakfast session was another avenue to engage with the ideas and the innovators, discuss and create room of opportunities for the investors and seek to find common working ground with the regulators with a purpose of making all stakeholders realise that we are all part of a budding ecosystem that requires consistent effort to make it work and grow beyond scale. On why the business series is focused on technology, he said, “Technology has transformed the approach, comfort, swiftness and period with which business activities are conducted. Technology has important effects on business operations. No matter the size of your enterprise, technology has both tangible and intangible benefits that increase your productivity and ease of doing business.
“Whereas, the legal profession is known for its conservatism and traditionalism which many believe must be preserved in order to maintain the prestige of the profession, the Firm has totally embraced technology in aiding the business of law and realise that there is a burning need for conversations and thought leadership that can drive technological advancement and investment in Nigeria”. The law firm believes that the Telecommunication, Media and Technology landscape is quite broad and there is a lot of room for growth, innovation and investment in the varying technology sectors such as FinTech, Adtech, AgriTech, InsureTech, EduTech and also RegTech which promises not only to cut the cost of compliance processes but also to improve effectiveness to make them quicker and more reliable. Also speaking at the event, Soibi Ovia, a partner, said technology was driven by human creation, hence the need to protect the creation of humans, which is intellectual property. “We need to review the laws guiding intellectual property. Our intellectual property laws are out-dated and our trademark acts are not up-to-date. We need standing laws to protect our intellectual properties,” Ovia said.