The Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Limited clocked 30 years this week from the day it was officially incorporated on May 17, 1989. From its inception, the NLNG has strived to live up to its vision of being a global liquefied natural gas company renowned for its operational excellence while at the same time helping to build a better Nigeria. In the pursuit of building a better Nigeria, NLNG through its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in Nigeria has spent over N25 billion on community projects over the years; committed N120 billion on the construction of Bonny-Bodo Road in Rivers State; signed an MOU with the Bonny Island community to provide N3 billion each year for 25 years for the overall development of the Kingdom. In all of its CSR endeavours, the premium it placed on education in Nigeria has been legendary as it considers education as a key development factor with unique potentials to stimulate development and growth. The company administers a scholarship programme that covers post primary, undergraduate, overseas postgraduate and maritime studies. Over N500 million has been spent on undergraduate scholarship for Nigerian students in various universities. In partnership with the Nigerian Academy of Science and the Nigerian Academy of Letters, the company instituted the Nigeria Prize for Science and the Nigeria Prize for Literature to honour and encourage excellent innovators and writers. Apart from formal education, the company has also bridged the gap in technical education in the country through the establishment of Bonny Vocational Centre, an accredited London City & Guilds centre in Nigeria, which produces world class technicians to fill the skills gap in Nigeria. But the University Support Programme (USP), an intervention in the nation’s tertiary education sector where it spent $12 million on six Nigerian universities to develop engineering education, compliment government’s efforts and propel Nigeria’s quest for innovation and technological advancement. The project entailed building modern engineering laboratories and procuring engineering equipment to aid teaching and research in the six universities; University of Ibadan, University of Ilorin, University of Port-Harcourt, University of Maiduguri, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria and University of Nigeria, Nsukka, were selected based on rankings by the National Universities Commission (NUC) and other international bodies. Other parameters used in selecting the universities included long standing contributions to the development of local capacity in Nigeria and their outstanding performance within each of the six geopolitical zones in the country, especially in the area of engineering and technical education and the grooming of notable engineering luminaries who have contributed to national development. The project began in October 2014 and was completed in 2016. Beside the key objective of supporting teaching and research, the USP, according to the company, was also aimed at training the next generation of engineers for the nation’s development. The oil and gas sector has a track record of innovation. As it is becoming harder and farther to discover new reserves, it has become imperative to adapt universities’ curriculum for expanded skills sets and technologies. “We believe that one result is certain from these processes: the laboratories will be world-class and it will spur the development of engineering education and help bring the universities at par with their peers world-wide,” Babs Omotowa, then Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, NLNG, said during the signing ceremony of the memorandum of agreement (MOA) with the six universities which effectively flagged off the project implementation phase on June 20, 2014. On the 21st of November 2015, Ahmadu Bello University successfully commissioned their multi-user laboratory, becoming the first of the six USP projects to go live. Professor Ibrahim Garba, Vice Chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University, at the commissioning ceremony said the multi-user laboratories was the first of its kind since the inception of the institution adding that the facility would avail students and lecturers of the institution the opportunity to conduct their research in the field of engineering technology. The University of Ibadan and University of Port Harcourt respectively commissioned the NLNG/UI Engineering Complex and the NLNG Centre for Gas, Refining and Petrochemical Engineering on the 21st of March 2016 and the 1st of April 2016, while on July 8, 2016, University of Ilorin opened its NLNG Engineering Research Centre. “It is impressive to note that the company, which is headquartered in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, and doing its business globally, should commit to such an inspiring Corporate Social Responsibility initiative on a national scale, to benefit six tertiary institutions across the geopolitical zones in the country, including our very own University of Ilorin,” Abdulfatah Ahmed, governor of Kwara state said at the commissioning of University of Ilorin NLNG Engineering Research Centre. “This act distinguishes Nigeria LNG as a unifying corporate organisation in the face of the diverse interests plaguing the unity of the country, evidenced by the intense clamour for regional autonomy and resource control in the respective zones,” Ahmed added, while expressing appreciation to the board, management and staff of Nigeria LNG for the “honour done to University of Ilorin and the people of Kwara State”. On November 29, 2016, the NLNG/University of Nigeria, Nsukka Engineering Laboratory was commissioned. “The University Support Programme was set up to provide structured support for the development of research and scholarship in higher institutions”, Tony Attah, NLNG managing director/chief executive officer said during the commissioning of  the NLNG/University of Nigeria, Nsukka Engineering Laboratory. In his address, Osobonye LongJohn, Chairman, Board of Directors of NLNG, said the USP “is a reinforcement of Nigeria LNG’s belief that science and technology, as well as research which directly impacts society and human lives, is a must have for Nigeria as we are to make the desired move from a developing country to a developed one.” The NLNG USP was brought to successful closure with the commissioning of the NLNG/University of Maiduguri Faculty of Engineering laboratories on December 6, 2016. “I am impressed with NLNG’s contribution to national development. Your interest in the development of education has led to the actualisation of this project. This construction is a welcome development which could assist in the proposed exploration of crude oil in the Lake Chad Basin area and taking off of the North East Development Commission. Let me appeal to companies, philanthropists, non-governmental organisation and old students of UNIMAID to emulate NLNG,” Kashim Shettima, governor of Borno state said in his address at the event. It is noteworthy that the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry awarded NLNG the 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Excellence Award in recognition of the impact of the $12million pan-Nigeria University Support Programme. The award is given to companies which CSR projects impacts society without direct benefit to the company. In this age of disruptive technology and Artificial Intelligence, the NLNG University Support Programme is providing the right platform to cultivate a culture of innovation that will strategically propel Nigeria to lead other African countries while sustaining global competitiveness. As companies in oil and gas diversify to expand their portfolios into other energy alternatives, there would be a desire for employees who can move more fluidly across board and help to address these gaps. The new skills strategy would ensure that the industry responds effectively to securing future talent requirements would be honed in these universities. In 10 to 15 years’ time, it is believed that the best scientific and engineering minds in areas such as robotics, subsea, engineering, decommissioning and skills development in Nigeria would be produced through the long-term, collaborative relationships birthed by the NLNG USP. Over time this initiative will demonstrate the potential of being at the forefront of producing the kind of graduates needed for innovation and job roles to drive Nigeria into the emerging age of Artificial Intelligence.  FRANK UZUEGBUNAM