TAMS just had the re-branded Nigeria’s Employee of the Year Award (NEYA) in celebration of the most productive and punctual employees in Nigeria. Previously known as TAMS Ambassadors, the award is designed to promote accountability of time and resources in Nigeria’s workplaces, with the intended outcome of advancing a culture of timeliness, resourcefulness and productivity. They also just newly introduced Nigeria’s HR Manager of the Year Award in recognition of the crucial role HR Managers play in creating enabling workplaces for employees to contribute to the success of the organisation and grow their careers. Since 2016, the top three winners have enjoyed all-expense paid trips and other fantastic prizes. This year, the top three nominees in each category will enjoy an all-expense paid trip to Dubai and Abu Dhabi, in addition to other fantastic prizes. Raliat Abe is the 2019 winner of the TAMS Nigeria’s Employee of the Year Award. She is the Retail Operations Manager of House of Tara International responsible for overseeing the revenue, people and operational activities in twenty two branches within the country, and ensuring the achievement of sales targets and customer service standards in the company’s retail outlets. She has spent nine years in the company, having started as an intern and risen through the ranks in different roles including Retail Artist, Training School Instructor, Branch Coordinator, and Regional Retail Manager supervising Northern branches. Raliat was responsible for initiating three branches in Abuja and fostering the growth of retail outlets in the Northern Region while also leading the region’s staff to exceed the regional sales target and also improve customer experience index in the retail outlets. She has over the years built competences in Retail Marketing, Customer Experience Management, Product and Business Development, and People Management. She is a recipient of the company’s Exceptional Leadership Award in 2017. Raliat is a graduate of French from the University of Jos, and an alumnus of The Enterprise Development Centre of Pan African University with a Certificate in Entrepreneurship Management. She has attended trainings and earned professional certifications in Make-up Artistry both nationally and internationally including Certificate in Advanced Make-up by BTP 2015 in Atlanta, USA; Bridal & Photography Makeup training, Certificate in HD Airbrushing Make-up, and Advanced Certificate in Make-up Artistry by House of Tara International. She was recently nominated as the most valuable employee in her Organisation, House of Tara International, a nomination which qualified her as a candidate for the TAMS Nigeria’s Employee of the Year Award, which she eventually won.  Kemi Ajumobi 