The Acting Inspector General of Police, (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has warned that any officer of the Special Anti-robbery Squad (SARS), Anti-kidnapping Squad and other special units found to have committed extra-judicial killing and other illegal infringements on the rights of the citizens, will be sanctioned according to the rule of law. The IGP gave this warning during an interactive session with Officers in Charge of Special Ant-robbery Squad (SARS), Anti-kidnapping Squad and other Special units in Abuja and the 36 states of the federation, a statement issued on Thursday by Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, said. The IGP noted that it has become imperative to have the interactive session because of the need to address concerns on the rising rate of armed robberies, kidnappings, banditry and other violent crimes in the country. He said that the police must address issues touching on the abuse of powers, misuse of firearms and other extra-judicial actions by personnel in your Units. “Let me re-emphasise here, once again, that our primary responsibility is to protect the lives and property of the citizens we were engaged to serve. “Let me sound a note of warning here as I have done in various fora, that any officer that is involved in extra-judicial killing and abuse of power will be held accountable for his action and risks losing his job and facing criminal prosecution. Furthermore, you as the line supervisors of such erring officers shall be held vicariously liable for supervisory negligence be similarly sanctioned. “This is a sacred duty and no level of justification should underscore our being engaged in any act that negates this responsibility. Indeed, these unprofessional actions have led to lack of confidence and trust in the Police, and this impact on our crime prevention capacity,” the IGP said. He said that for the avoidance of doubt, it is the sole responsibility of the Police as the lead internal security agency to make the country safe for all citizens, and this is within the purview of the officers as field officers directly charged with the mandate of addressing the threat of kidnapping and armed robbery. “Your performance, sense of commitment to duty, and professional competence in this instance remain critical to the ability of the Police to prevent or optimally respond to these crimes. “In order to complement your efforts, we shall soon fully resuscitate, re-organize and expand the operations of the ‘Safer Highway Patrol’ Scheme. This is with intent to enhance visibility policing within the public space and particularly, at vulnerable areas across the country. We are also exploring the concept of Safer City where CCTV technology will be optimally engaged to support our operations. “In addition, we are exploring the possibility of establishing a National Crime Analysis Centre which will be engaged in the collation, analysis and dissemination of criminal intelligence to support your operations,” the IGP assured. He charged the officers to rededicate themselves to their duties by taking the war against violent criminals to their door steps, and strongly warned them again that this must be done within the ambit of the law and acceptable professional ethics.  Innocent Odoh, Abuja