Propertymart Real Estate Investment Limited, a Lagos based property firm, has allocated plots of lands to subscribers of its Fairmont Hilltop Estate, Alagbado, boosting their confidence in the scheme. In tandem with its goal of addressing the housing deficit in the country, the latest allocation is one of the series targeted at providing comfortable housing away from the bustling city life to a fine country living which the Fairmont Hilltop presents. Located in Alagbado, within close proximity to necessary amenities capable of serving the hilltop lifestyle, the estate gives subscribers the complete experience of a city with security, comfort, and accessibility, as well as a variety of recreational facilities, products, and services. Subscribers impressed with the project’s professional management of allocation have commended the firm for not reneging on its commitment to them, especially in infrastructural development on site. Tunde Salami, a subscriber to the Fairmont Hilltop estate urged the company to keep up with the innovative offerings and sustain its standards, while Omoti Emmanuel, another subscriber described the architectural design and attention to details as inspiring. At the handing over ceremony, Abimbola Arasi, Propertymart’s deputy managing director, assured the subscribers of the company’s resolve to always deliver on its mandate, despite the economic realities of the country. He noted that the company has continued to pursue the objective of advancing people lives through providing affordable housing solutions under a reputable management and board of directors since inception. “The unprecedented turnout received for the offer and the need to get more Nigerians interested in owning their own properties on the Fairmont platform motivated us. Like other Fairmont estates in different parts of the country, we have made it affordable under a sustainable payment plan for all types of income earners,” he said. A key-thrust of the housing revolution which the company is championing is the need to encourage more persons to acquire their own properties at affordable prices under a flexible payment arrangement. This also informed the decision of the company to introduce the Fairmont Hilltop Alagbado scheme which is being offered at affordable rates with quality of infrastructure provision. The estate is about 15 minutes distance from The Palms Mall, Sango Ota, eight minutes from Command Day Secondary School and 20 minutes from Muritala Mohammed International Airport, Computer Village and Canaan Land in Ota, Ogun State. The firm’s mission is hinged on the provision of needed infrastructure such as roads, walkways, and recreational facilities in a serene, beautiful and secured living environment.  Temitayo Ayetoto