Crown Flour Mills, a subsidiary of Olam Grains Nigeria, says it plans to venture into the cultivation of wheat in Nigeria as part of its backward integration drive. Anurag Shukla, managing director, Olam Grains, said that the company is currently working with the Nigeria’s Wheat Frmers Association and the Federal Government to boost the production of the commodity in the country. “We are working actively with the wheat famers association and the Presidency to ensure that famers can grow wheat effectively and efficiently,” Shukla said during Crown Flour Mills customer forum gala night held in Abuja recently. “It is one of our core focus areas because we believe that Nigeria can grow wheat especially in the northern region,” he said. He said that the company has been expanding its foot print in the flour milling industry since 2010 when it first acquired Crown Flour Mills. He added that with the recent proposal to acquire Dangote Flour, the company will emerge the biggest flour miller operator in the country. Shukla highlighted opportunities in the Nigerian wheat-milling industry, saying it has the potential to create 10 million jobs across the entire value chains. “We strongly believe that in Nigeria, the flour milling industry is one business that can provide employment. This is something that is close to our heart since we started 30 years ago,” he said. In his opening remarks and welcome address, Bolaji Anifowose, vice president – commercial, Crown Flour Mills, said that the event was to celebrate the company’s annual awards for all its customers across the country. “There is need for us to support our dealers in a different capacity. Tonight awards will not just be based on volumes like previous years but also on loyalty,” Anifowose said. “Customers will be given gifts that will enhance their business going forward,” he said. He added that Crown Flour is a complete customer centric compliance company and that the company would be launching a loyalty club for its customers across the country. “We would ensure that we support our customers individually to ensure that they keep growing more than their competitors.” He appreciated the dealers in attendance for their loyalty over the years. Ishaq Abdul Raheem, chairman, Association of Master Bakers &Caterers of Nigeria, Abuja Chapter, said that the company’s excellent marketing strategy has continued to drive sales for its products more than that of other competitors. “Crown Flour has a unique way of marketing unlike their competitors. The strategy is excellent and making them increase their customer base,” Raheem said. Similarly, Medinat Sanusi of Opeyemi Bakery Industry in Lagos, who was one of the dealers that were rewarded that night, appreciated the company for the initiative of the awards. “There is a high acceptance of the product in the market and the management has a listening ear to our queries and complaints by ensuring they are resolved quickly,” she said.  Josephine Okojie