I would like to start this column by wishing everyone observing the Holy month of Ramadan fruitful fasting period. Ramadan Mubarak! In every cosmopolitan city in the world, you are likely to find an Ethiopian restaurant, from Toronto to New York to Johannesburg, Ethiopian cuisine has been one of Africa’s biggest exports.  I am excited to tell you about a different kind of African cuisine in this edition of Culinary Delights’. Cuisine and culinary experience from the corners of East Africa. The land of the  Amharic language, Ethiopia. Ethiopia is known for many amazing things, the world best long distance runners, Ethiopian airlines, coffee, and food among other things.   When I first discovered to Memories of Ethiopia I was pleasantly surprised that an authentically Ethiopian restaurant could do well in Lagos just  the same way other Ethiopian restaurants success in other cosmopolitan cities.  It’s encouraging that African cuisine is making its away across various African countries. It’s the true essence of Pan africanisme being able to enjoy differ aspects of our diverse continent freely. Memories of Ethiopia offers a true culinary and cultural experience and as luck may have it, they are having a pop at La Taverna in Victoria Island. Having tasted this culinary experience about 5 times, I wholeheartedly recommend this pop up happening Sunday, May 12th at 1 pm and 7 pm.   The main dish is called Injera, which is the most popular dish on the menu is a sourdough-risen flatbread with a slightly spongy texture that almost every household in Ethiopia will have every day. Teff flour is the main ingredient of Injera.  Like a sourdough starter, the flour is mixed with water and allowed to ferment for several days which makes it have a mildly sour taste. After the fermentation and being mixed with wheat and millet, it is then ready to be baked into large, flat pancakes. Similar to a French crêpe, the Injera is poured onto the baking surface, rather than rolled out.   The bottom surface of the injera, which touches the heating surface, will have a relatively smooth texture, while the top will become porous. This porous structure allows the injera to be a good bread for scooping up sauces and dishes. Injera is best served with various meat sauces or vegetarian sauces.  While Ethiopian food may be different than most Nigerian dishes, I believe food should be an adventure so I invite you to join me at the Memories of Ethiopia pop up this Sunday at  La Taverna Restaurant in Victoria Island this Sunday, May 12th to truly get a taste of Ethiopian cuisine. You can find the details in the flyer below. See you there! Contact www.instagram.com/memoriesofethiopia