Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state has announced the reversal of appointment of eleven permanent secretaries elevated by former governor Abiola Ajimobi. The eleven permanent secretaries appointed two weeks ago by the immediate past Governor were subsequently inaugurated on Wednesday, May 15th. The new eleven permanent secretaries included: Oladeinde F.N, Jimoh A.A, Abioye Christiana and Eyitayo Adejoke. Others were Ajagbe J.O, Adedigba A.A, Adebowale Balogun, Olaleye Iyabo Olayinka, Olanrewaju T.A, Fatoki Yinka and Audu Akeem.
But on Friday ,Governor Makinde announced the decision to reverse the appointed at a meeting he had with all permanent secretaries in the state. The new Governor said that he has reversed the appointed with immediate effect. He maintained that the he reversed the promotion as part of effort in fulfilling of his promise to review all new contracts and appointments made by Ajimobi in the last three weeks of his administration. Makinde’s Media Aide, Dotun Oyelade said that the decision was in line with the Governor’s electoral promises. Oyelade stated “It is true. Yes it is true and it is in line with his electoral promises. Governor Makinde will be very consistent and finicky with all his campaign promises and this is not an exception. ‘’The governor said that all transactions either contractually or in terms of appointments and promotions that were done especially between Monday March 11 and May 28 would be given closer scrutiny particularly because of the obvious mischief that has been introduced into the whole governance within this period. ‘’So, it’s true that during the campaign period, the governor promised that the people of the state would not have him in the Governor’s Office to embark on distractive traditional probe but the brazen attitude that bothers on attempt to block the success of the current administration has made the governor to decide the latest course of action which is to reverse many of the policies and actions of the Ajimobi administration at the eve of his exit because they were borne out of malice. “So, just like he made good the promise to cancel the N3, 000 paid by parents on their public secondary school children and open the Governor’s Office flyover for every citizen of Oyo State, in the same manner he is dealing with the issue of the appointment of the permanent secretaries and civil servants.”  Remi Feyisipo,Ibadan