 On Tuesday, May 21, 2019 First City Monument Bank (FCMB) rewarded another set
of its Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) customers in Season 2 of the
Bank’s reward scheme tagged “FCMB SME Race to China Promo”. The winners
emerged through rounds of electronic selection from the pool of qualified SME
customers in the first draws of the promo (for the months of March and April) held in
Lagos, Kano, Abia and Oyo states. Among the winners are eight customers who each won the star prize of an all-
expense paid trip to China (return flight ticket and hotel accommodation for 7 nights)
to participate in the 2019 edition of the Canton Trade Fair, one of the world’s biggest
import and export trade fairs, scheduled to hold later this year. In addition, several
other SME customers won various exciting items. These include $500 preloaded
shopping cards, business enablers (such as, power generating sets, laptops) and
other consolation prizes.  At the Lagos regional draw, Eternal Fabrics Enterprises and Gold Tech Multi-Global
Limited, won the star prizes for the months of March and April, respectively, while
Jahved Ventures and Sapart Integrated Services Limited in Gombe State emerged
winners at the Northern regional draw which took place in Kano. Similarly, Soupah
Farm-En-Market Limited and Lade Olagbenro &amp; Company were the star prize
winners at the regional draws for South-west, held in Ibadan, Oyo State. Ife Progress
Resources Limited and The Congregation of the Mission emerged lucky winners at
the South-east/South-south regional draw held in Aba, Abia State. Among the winners of $500 preloaded shopping cards, power generating sets and
laptops are Suraj Furniture Limited, Smoothie Express Limited, Pisces OEA Multibil
Limited, Goldmet Ventures, Exclusive Champion Limited, Kingdom Ideas Integrated
Limited and Brands Yard Limited. Season 2 of the ‘’FCMB SME Race to China Promo”, which commenced in May and
will run till October, is an extension of the first phase held last year following the
huge success and impact recorded. It is designed by FCMB to give extra value,
empower and reward its Business Banking/SME customers for their patronage and
loyalty over the years. The promo is targeted at business customers who operate
any of the Bank’s local currency accounts. There will be a total of 6 draws which will
hold monthly.  Speaking on Season 2 of the ‘’FCMB SME Race to China Promo” the Executive
Director, Business Development of the Bank, Mrs. Bukola Smith, said, &quot;this is part of
our initiatives to demonstrate our commitment to the growth of SMEs, which are key
drivers of economic development. The second edition of this promo has been
enhanced to ensure that more customers have the opportunity to emerge as
winners. From 43 winners in the first edition held last year, a total of 320 customers
will win either a trip to China, $500 pre-loaded shopping cards, business enablers
and other gifts that are on offer in the second edition. We will continue to create
opportunities and offer the very best of products as well as services that will grow the
business of our SME customers in a sustainable manner.&quot; In their comments, the winners commended FCMB for considering it worthy to
reward and empower its SME customers. According to the Managing Director of Ife
Progress Resources, Mr. Ezeike Ifechukwu, &quot;I was in shock and at same time very
happy when I was called by FCMB that I have won a trip to China. I have never been
lucky, not even once in my life to win anything. So when I received a text message
from FCMB telling me about the Race to China Promo, I didn&#39;t really bother. But
having won the star prize, I thank the Bank, our Bank. I am a shareholder of FCMB,
a customer for more than ten years, and I maintain series of accounts. FCMB has
always been my number one Bank. Today, I repledge my loyalty to FCMB. I will
ensure that I drive more customers to FCMB&quot;. Another star prize winner of a trip to China, Mrs. Joyce Ajanah, who is the Managing
Director of Gold Tech Multi-Tech Limited, said, &quot;I am very excited, really short of
words and extremely grateful to FCMB. This is definitely going to make my business
grow significantly. The FCMB Race to China promo is a very good initiative. The
Bank is going places&quot;.