Dell Technologies has unveiled a new set of cloud infrastructure solutions to make hybrid cloud environments simpler to deploy and manage. Combining the power of VMware and Dell EMC infrastructure, Dell Technologies Cloud is said to remove cloud complexity by offering consistent infrastructure and operations for IT resources, across public and private clouds and the edge, regardless of location. According to IDC, more than 70 percent of companies are using multiple cloud environments, and the largest data center challenge most companies face is developing a successful multi-cloud strategy.Operating in multiple clouds has caused organisations to onboard many management consoles and disparate processes, which stifles innovation and adds complexity. The hybrid cloud approach is therefore thought to be an ideal solution, as it offers a familiar management interface that extends across clouds for a simplified overall experience. With VMware research finding that 83 percent of cloud adopters are seeking consistent infrastructure and operations from the data center to the cloud, the Dell Technologies Cloud is designed specifically to address this challenge. According to Jeff Clarke, vice chairman of products and operations, Dell Technologies; “For many organisations, the increasingly diverse cloud landscape is resulting in an enormous amount of IT complexity, and no one is more qualified or capable to help customers solve this challenge than Dell Technologies.” “Cloud is not a destination; it’s an operating model. With Dell Technologies Cloud and joint engineering between Dell EMC and VMware, we are offering a unified hybrid cloud experience. This provides consistent infrastructure and operations at every location the cloud resides—from on-premises data centers to public clouds and the emerging edge—allowing our customers to have greater control of their multi-cloud journey,” Clarke said. The Dell Technologies Cloud portfolio consists of the new Dell Technologies Cloud platforms and the new Data Center-as-a-Service offering, VMware Cloud on Dell EMC. These enable a flexible range of IT and management options with tight integration and a single vendor experience for purchasing, deployment, services and financing. According to Dell Technologies, its Cloud service gives customers more control with the operational hub of their hybrid clouds, on premises, with consistent cloud infrastructure across all cloud types and a broad set of more than 4,200 VMware Cloud Provider Program providers and hyperscalers. This hybrid cloud approach is delivered through a powerful integration of hardware, software, services and consumption options from Dell, Inc., “The Dell Technologies Cloud complements this core technology with a broad set of value-added services, such as security, data protection and lifecycle management. It helps ensure success through consulting, infrastructure deployment, management, support and education services while offering public cloud-like consumption of IT infrastructure,” the company said in a news release.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson