The Lagos State House of Assembly, Thursday passed the Public Procurement Amendment Bill 2018 into law. In the new public procurement law, there will be an increment in the initial deposit to contractors from 20 percent to 40 percent and also include the use of indigenous language in carrying out procurement processes to encourage local contractors. The new law will also foster independence and transparency in the operations of the board for the benefit of Lagos residents. During the debate of the bill last year, the lawmakers argued that the review would enhance performance and delivery of standard work by contractors. Meanwhile, the Environmental Management and Protection (Amendment) bill was read for second time. The bill which was co-sponsored by Muyiwa Jimoh ( Apapa 2), Olusola Sokunle (Oshodi/Isolo 1), Mojisola Lasbat Meranda (Apapa 1), and Sanai Agunbiade (Ikorodu 1) was to allow for more participation in the business of evacuating refuse in the state. The Chairman House Committee on Environment, Saka Fafunmi, informed the House that the bill was needed to address the challenges faced by the existing law, adding that the committee had decided to look at every sections of the law that need amendment. Fafunmi stressed that the committee tends to use the amendment to return Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) to how it was before now, adding that it would further expand the scope of waste management in the State. He further stressed that the amendment would allow LAWMA to take charge of the management of solid wastes across the state. “This amendment would also give room for PSP participation in waste management. It will not be only one concessionaire that would be in charge of waste management but more people would be able to get involved,” he noted. Fafunmi assured that all relevant stakeholders would be invited to make contributions into the bill when it is committed to the Environment Committee. In his comment, Noheem Adams, said that the amendment bill was timely as it came at a time the state was experiencing environmental challenges and waste pollution. Adams, who represents Eti Osa 1 Constituency, added that if the bill was passed it would be the contribution of the Assembly to the state in addressing the problem facing the environment. “It is high time we protected our environment so that we would be able to evacuate all the wastes in our state,” Adams said. However, the Speaker of the House, Mudashiru Obasa, committed the bill to the Committee on Environment, and gave the members two weeks to report back to the House. Also, a Bill for law to regulate the relationship of parties under the tenancy agreement and the procedure for recovery of premises and connected purposes 2019, was read. The Chairman, House Committee on Housing, Olanrewaju Layode (Badagry 1), explained to the House that the bill would give the tenants the freedom for privacy and enjoy reasonable distance from the landlords. Also, Tunde Braimoh, who represents Kosofe 1, said that there are certain areas like GRA Ikeja, V.I and Apapa that are exempted from the tenancy law, saying that the proposed amendment sought to redress that. He added that the law needed to be refined to make it suitable for the current situation of the state. The House later adopted the Lagos State Security Trust Fund after the debate on the report read by the Chairman, House Committee on Information, Strategy and Security, Funmilayo Tejuosho.