A former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Timi Frank has supported the leader of the Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, Ayo Adebanjo on his recent comment that President Muhammadu Buhari should not be recognised as President-Elect. Frank, who said until the Supreme Court determines the true winner of the 2019 presidential election, Buhari should not be addressed as a president-elect, stressing that, “he is an illegal President-elect.” Adebanjo had expressed optimism that Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) would retrieve his stolen mandate in the court of law.
The Yoruba leader also said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), wrongly declared Buhari as winner of the election. Speaking through a statement he made available to newsmen in Abuja, Frank who commended the elder statesman for his courage in speaking truth to power, added that no matter how long it takes, the will of people would surely prevail. “It is unfortunate that Nigeria has very few men like Pa Adebanjo, who can boldly say it as it is. Even at their very old age, hypocrisy is still a meal ticket for so many and that is why illegality reigns supreme in Nigeria. “Under the watch of Buhari, there is no governance and that is why his appointees are taking advantage of his incompetence to loot public funds. Gen. Buhari has taken the country from bad to worse, and democracy is now getting another meaning under the nose of a failed President,” Frank stated. The erstwhile APC National Officer further decried the worsening security situation across the country, and insisted that all the money meant to buy equipment has been stolen by a clique inside APC’s administration. “Where is the motivation? All the money meant to purchase weapons has been stolen by the APC government. The President cannot sack the tired and long due for retirement Service Chiefs because the secret of his illegal second term is in their (Service Chiefs) hands. “A caring President cannot abandon the country when the nation is on fire. Gen. Buhari does not care and that is why he chose to travel for a private matter when his subjects are dying in large numbers to banditry, kidnapping and hunger.” On the economy, Frank said the country is now back to recession, adding that unemployment has also gone through the roof with 33.5percent of the total population practically begging for their daily bread, adding that the government of the APC has ran out of ideas on how to take the people out of poverty. “Nigerians should take note that the #NEXT LEVEL Buhari promised the country is now being implemented fully, where insecurity reigns supreme, where hunger and poverty stare Nigerians in the face, job loss and begging is the order of the day, and lack of respect for the rule of law has become the badge of honour for the government of the day.”
He, however, called on leaders of thought, genuine Civil Society Organisations and all Nigerians to speak up and act before the socio-economic situation in the country degenerates irretrievably.