Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Sunday charged Nigerians against falling prey to persons who may want to exploit the nation’s fault lines. The Vice President, while speaking at the interdenominational service organized as part of activities heralding President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term inauguration at the Ecumenical Christian center, Abuja on Sunday, also urged Christians to lead in giving Nigerians hope. Osinbajo who expressed the confident that the nation’s future is bright, said “We must not permit anyone to take advantage of the country’s fault lines. According to Osinbajo, “Our days will be better and better. This is the reason why I am so confident, our ministry is that of reconciliation. “Our country stands at the threshold of phenomenal great, the end of the story light and joy. We begin with darkness and confusion but the end of our story is bright, the future of our nation is bright.” The guest Speaker, Cardinal John Onaiyekan, standing in for the President of Chatholic Bishop Conference, Augustine Akubeze, gave a message he titled “ Let us chose life, not death “ Deuteronomy 30: verse 19. The last election, he said left behind thick cloud of acrimony, which is still to clear. While noting that Nigerians are still waiting for the final verdict of the various election petitions tribunals, Onaiyeka asserted that “ This is not time for any celebration of victory or lamentations over defeat, rather, it is time to put all our efforts together to tackle the serious challenges facing us” “ The days of pointing accusing fingers at others will not carry us far” , adding that “for sincere change to take place, we must all be ready for a sincere change of heart, from the highest to the lowest, but especially at the highest levels” “ Empty boasts and barefaced denials of the realities around us cannot built a nation”. We are in the house of God and before God, we must tell each other the truth”
“The truth is that our nation is not in the state for us to rejoice” He noted that ranks of the poor are swelling by the day, hopeless and helpless, as they watch in frustration, the affluence of the very few cruising in a different world. He noted that such wide socio- economic disparity has actually led to wide spread anger, tension, violence and outright criminality in the land adding that but all is not well” For him, however, while noting that all is not lost, called on the government to change its ways and build a prosperous nation for Nigeria. While also noting that God endowed Nigeria with enormous resources, which has been Unfortunately turned into curses and problems, however, urged government to beware of those who seek powers to divide and rule for self aggrandizement. “ Religion is good, but not enough, adding that those who manipulate religion for their selfish political interest end up destroying it and harming the nation instead. He noted that Nigeria’s ethnic diversity remains a gift from God to Nigerians that we ought to appreciate and celebrate. “ In our emerging global world, we should be building on our long experience of living together across ethnic lines . If we are not to allow ourselves to be left behind” Onaiyekan called on Nigerians to seek the Will of God and respect for the provisions of the nation’s Constitution, in building a strong nation Onaiyekan who lamented that life is in great danger in Nigeria as a result of the activities of gun men and women, called on government to effectively mobilize the nation to face the disaster that is hovering around. “ Before God, this is the truth and not a propaganda to discredit any government. The nation must be mobilized to join hands against the disaster that is looming over all of us”
“ The sad part is that many have already lost hope in the future of the nation. “ For too long, we have been seeing what seemed to be a policy if polarization of the nation along primordial fault lines of ethnicity and religion, the result is that we have been indulging in the highly risky things of dancing in chaos and we do not know how long we can continue to get away with it. But the hand writing on the wall is clear for everyone to see, that no condition is permanent. Certainly, not the present state of our nation” In this new term of office, there is need for a drastic change of government system if our nation is to be saved from imminent chaos. The fact is that many have already lost hope in the future of this nation . According to them we are to get ready for the worst” He urged government not to ignore the serious warnings from wise elders He however noted that there are still many who still believe in the ability of Nigerians to built a United nation and realize the dreams of the nation’s founding fathers, adding that “doing nothing and pointing accusing fingers at others, is to wait for the worst to happen” The lord has put before us the choice of life over death. He prayed that all those whose duties it is to keep the nation safe will do their duties. Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu took the main scripture reading , taken from Revelation 4: 1-11, at the event which attracted former Head of State, Yakubu Gowon, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, Service Chiefs, members of the Diplomatic Corps and top government officials.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja