The CEO of Public Relations and Digital Communications Agency, BHM, Ayeni Adekunle has been confirmed to join a panel discussion at the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) national conference which holds on Thursday May 2. The Conference with the theme: “Optimising Public Relations Strategies for National Cohesion” is part of the scheduled activities of the institute’s three-day 2019 Annual General Meeting (AGM) taking place at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja, Nigeria’s capital city. Also expected at the conference is Nigeria’s Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, who will serve as the Special Guest of Honour while Bishop Matthew Kukah will give a keynote speech. Ayeni is a Nigerian entrepreneur and investor with interests in public relations, advertising, media, Human capital management, technology, and entertainment. He founded BHM in 2006 and the company currently serves a wide range of high end clientele spread across different sectors including FMCGs, Telecommunication, and Media Services. BHM has pioneered several initiatives in the Nigerian PR sector, one of them being the BHM App, which serves as a pool of resources for the Nigerian public relations practitioners and credited as the “first PR mobile application”. The company is also responsible for the first-ever Nigeria PR Report, containing insights across key areas in the Nigeria PR industry. Published first in 2016, the Nigeria PR Report is the country’s first-ever annual report on Public Relations, dedicated to gathering, chronicling and analyzing data on trends, perceptions, challenges and prospects within the industry. As part of efforts to bridge the gap between the theory and practice of public relations in Nigeria, BHM has also published a book to help practitioners. Titled BHM Guide to Public Relations, the 138-page interactive digital book contains tips, tools and tricks for everyone interested in smart PR. BHM is also responsible for “Concept Of Virality”, the widely-praised report, which used Nigerian hawker-turned-model Olajumoke Orisaguna as case study, outlining the DNA of a viral story. It explains how she became rapidly popular, why some brands benefitted from associating with her while others experienced failure in attempting to do the same; and crucially, how brands, agencies and content marketers can recognize opportunities to create or join movements that capture the imagination of the world. Reacting to his invitation, Ayeni says; “PR plays a critical role in the political landscape of any nation. I am particularly delighted by this invitation and look forward to joining other major stakeholders in the Nigerian PR sector to have conversations that will help to synchronize our practice with the realities of the Nigerian political climate”. Also commenting on the 2019 AGM, NIPR President, Malam Mukhtar Sirajo said part of the agenda for this year’s conference is to use good Public Relations (PR) managers to handle information on challenges confronting the nation. “The NIPR as the sole body entrusted with the responsibility of managing reputation, promoting friendship, deepening relationships, and regulating Public Relations activities in the country is poised to lend its professional competence on efforts towards restoring the trajectory of peaceful co-existence in Nigeria”. “In the light of the need for urgent solutions to issues confronting our national integration, the NIPR is convening a National Conference on the theme “Optimising Public Relations Strategies for National Cohesion”. The conference is part of activities of the Institute’s 2019 Annual General Meeting (AGM); designed to promote national unity. ” Sirajo concluded.