Nigeria’s CWG Plc said it has sealed a partnership deal with three Nigerian banks on the ATM as a Service concept, which it deployed about two years ago; giving the banks the needed freedom to focus on their core banking operations whilst CWG handles their ATM businesses. The banks at the fore of this roll-out with ATMs deployed across the nation are; United Bank of Africa (UBA), Unity Bank and Rolez Microfinance Banks, with Ecobank on the verge of being fully integrated as well. These banks are giving their customers access to enjoy better financial technology with this deployment, ensuing the gap to customers on financial inclusion are further closed with participation in this concept. The pilot phase of the first sets of ATM deployment already commenced in Oyo State with Rolez Micro Finance Bank. UBA is set to launching their batch within the ATM as a Service platform in a few days,” the largest System Integration Company in Nigeria, CWG, announced in a statement emailed to Journalists. CWG is driving the ATM as a Service concept in Nigeria with the GRG-ATM brand, which promotes their biometrics innovation in Nigeria as the first successful and working technology that runs on the Windows 10 Operating System. Recently, CWG disclosed that it had an outright sale of GRG ATMs in Nigeria to an undisclosed bank. “We sold our first 100 GRG H22N model ATMs to a bank in July 2018. This is the first bank to buy as much GRG ATMs in Nigeria since the OEM came back in 2015,” it revealed. Some of the key features in the GRG ATMs are; a reliable Cash Dispenser unit, a GRG in-built technology, which has been tested, CEN L Safe, availability of three (3) cameras to capture (User Face, Cash Load & Cash Out) – this can also be extended to have up to five (5) different cameras as the configuration requires. Other features are uninterrupted power supply, which can be configured to plan proper shutdown of the ATMs when there is no power supply to avoid the system being shut down during a customer’s transactions, 2D Barcode scanners, Contactless/ RF Smart card reader, Fingerprint Identification device (Dermalog Technology). Meanwhile, CWG said it is currently conducting Proof of Concept of the GRG brandswith other banks like Union Bank, Polaris Bank and Keystone Bank. While the technology has also been successfully integrated and tested with United Bank for Africa (UBA). CWG Plc, prides itself on the concept of continuously innovating within and in collaboration with others, to drive technological improvements that enable growth across various industries in the economy. The AaaS concept of the organization, is positioned to support the Apex bank’s initiative of closing the huge gap in the financial inclusion space, ensuring easy access to funds and allowing the banks concentrate on the delivery of their professional banking services.  Modestus Anaesoronye