Seamfix, provider of identity management solutions is advocating for improved digital data gathering and analysis to help improve planning and in turn boost Nigeria’s economy. The company which developed BioRgistra, the software solution that helps capture biometric data, recently organised a program in collaboration with ACT Foundation, a non-profit organisation that supports local, national and regional non-profit organisations working to address challenges across Africa. The event was organised to raise awareness on the importance of digital data collection and analysis for identity management and for business and economic development. Speaking at the event held at the Landmark Towers in Lagos recently, Chibuzor Onwurah, executive director, Seamfix, said; how can we plan and improve our economy if we don’t have data? Numbers don’t lie, so the more we can gather numbers and analyse it for progress through data driven solutions, the better for us as a nation.” According to him; Beyond identity, Nigeria has a lot of data that flow around in manual forms that need to be digitized. “Our focus is to provide the necessary tools that will enable organisations find it easy to digitize useful data. Our technology solution, BioRegistra is what is used in Nigeria today to carry out SIM card registration for telecommunications operators, it is used to capture biometrics for drivers’ licence and our solution has been adopted by the University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN) for their online portal for transcript application. We have decided to engage more sectors, like the non-government organisations (NGOs) to let them know how they can do more with BioRegistra,” Onwurah said. Sighting Nigeria’s unique problems of low internet penetration, mobility, Seamfix says its solutions are environment friendly, as its solutions are offline enabled, and can work on mobile phones to capture data on the move. Chimezie Emeluwu, managing director, Seamfix says that as a KYC company, Seamfix has built an e-KYC platform that will allow both the capture and verification of information. “Data rights and data protection is very important. Our platform is very GDPR compliant to ensure that the rights of everybody is protected,” Onwurah said. With over 100 staff across Nigeria, Seamfix isa technologically advanced, 100 percent indigenous solution provider with focus on biometrics, data science, digitisation and automation.  JUMOKE AKIYODE-LAWANSON