Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State on Monday appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to give more slots to Igbos during his second term. Governor Obiano who was fielding questions from State House Correspondents after a closed door meeting with President Buhari, said Igbos deserve to get more of such cabinet appointments in the next dispensation “ I did ask for support in appointments: ministerial, ambassadorial, parastatals and so on so that all of us can move to the Next Level.” He also revealed that about N2.3 billion has been spent so far by the federal government in school feeding in Anambra State. The Governor who said he was at the Presidential Villa to congratulate the President, disclosed said the state has over 8000 youth who are already employed, under the N-Power program “Youth that ordinarily would have been doing some other things, are gainfully employed by the Federal government and of course, “So we did ask for favour in that area, we did ask for increase in the social programs that the federal government is handling; more support for school feeding. Now we are feeding 126,000 pupils every day” he said. Obiano said he had briefed the President on the social programs, Home Grown School Feeding Programme, NPower, TraderMoney and others, adding “I briefed him fully that they are going according to plan. Of course” “ I did request for more supports in various states and I did promise him that as a governor and as Anambra State, we will give all the supports to make sure that he has a successful second term in office. “We did ask for appointment too in various areas. The president is a good man and he will look at those request dispassionately and handle accordingly. “There are many federal roads in Anambra they have concentrated majorly on the main one now which is Onitsha-Enugu Express Way. “But we have over seven more dilapidated federal roads in Anambra that have not been touched for over twenty years. Quite honestly, it was under his tenure – under Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) that those raids were made and now he is the fellow fixing them many years after.
“So I came to congratulate him on his well deserved victor. That is one, then I gave him update on the federal government projects that are going on in Anambra. For example, Second Niger Bridge, which is going according to plan, work is going on there very well. The minister of Power, Works and Housing and myself were at the sites recently and I came to brief him fully how that work is going as planned. “Secondly, the road they are doing between Onitsha and Awka -17.5km is going on very well, they have stone-pinch about eight kilometers of that road already and they have asphalted four kilometers already. Again, I commended him for that initiative. Initially, people thought it was election fluke but you can see long after the elections those works are still going on very well.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja