Chinese phone manufacturer and the second largest smartphone company in the world, Huawei said it will continue to seek new avenues to mend its relationship with the United States government. This is coming after the smartphone giant was granted a 90 days temporary general export license by the US Department of Commerce to engage with US vendors on a limited basis. The reprieve will also see Google provide software updates to Huawei for its Android phones while Huawei’s component suppliers will be able to finish deliveries for previously-made orders. Relationship between Huawei and the US government soured following a executive order by the Donald Trump administration to ban the company from the US market. Huawei has received undue attention in recent times over a protracted trade war between the US and China. The US government has been working to undermine the company’s global 5G ambitions, which it sees as a national security threat to other countries. In a statement BusinessDay received, Hauwei said it is ready and willing to engage with the US government and come up with effective measures to ensure product security. “Restricting Hauwei from doing business in the US will not make the US more secure or stronger; instead, this will only serve to limit the US to inferior yet more expensive alternatives, leaving the US lagging behind in 5G deployment, and eventually harming the interests of US companies and consumers. In addition, unreasonable restrictions will infringe upon Huawei’s rights and raise other serious legal issues.” US-internet giant, Google whose Android system powers Huawei’s smartphones, had announced earlier this week, that it was going to cut ties with Huawei as a result of the ban. “Huawei has made substantial contributions to the development and growth of Android around the world. As one of Android’s key global partners, we have worked closely with their open-source platform to develop an ecosystem that has benefitted both users and the industry. “Huawei will continue to provide security updates and after sales services to all existing Huawei and Honor smartphone and tablet products covering those have been sold or still in stock globally. “We will continue to build a safe and sustainable software ecosystem, in order to provide the best experience for all users globally,” the company said. 