HavenHill Synergy Ltd is a clean-tech utility company that uses renewable (solar) energy to generate clean, safe, cost-effective and sustainable electricity in urban and rural areas in Nigeria. Olusegun Odunaiye, tells BusinessDay’s Isaac Anyaogu the company’s strategy in a competitive market. Excerpts What are the significant milestones you have met so far? We started out 2010 as a power backup system.  We installed inverters and batteries for homes and from there we gradually started doing small solar systems, rooftops, 1kw, 2kw around 2015. Now we have additional 2 mini grids under construction; a 445 kilowatts and 100 kilowatts. The first two was 20kw and 30 kw and now we have a pipeline of 129 mini grids that we intend to develop  in the next three years. We  Off-grid businesses in Nigeria thrive on account of grants and concessional debt finance, what has been your experience? We got $100,000 from USADF as seed capital which helped finance the first mini-grid.So Our first mini grid is still functioning till today and we have even ramped up the operation. We are increasing gradually and we are putting the revenue we generate back into the community to do appliance finance because essentially rural people have never used electricity before. So you put a mini grid but how do you expect them to buy the TV, Fan, Refrigerators and begin to use? Even if you give it to them and you do not increase their earning capacity, they will still not be able to pay for the electricity. So we started learning those lessons, documenting it: what makes a mini grid work, what determines a viable mini grid, the commitment, the ability and willingness to pay. While we were still on that, USDAF came back to Nigeria, saw the project and gave additional funding for expansion of the work. So we were able to transfer lessons gotten from the first project into practice and then we raised debt from outside Nigeria because what USDAF gave as additional funding couldn’t complete the second project. So people we started business for some with N60,000 freezer and 20 thousand capital and today they are able to cater for their households. We have seen rural-rural migration into the communities where we have our electricity projects situated. Give us an insight into the strategy that has served you well? We don’t play in the mini grid space alone but we also play in the C&I space. In fact we have C&I projects that are operational and we also have a pipeline of almost 2 megawatts that we are currently fundraising for because at the end of the day you want to balance your business model. The rural dwellers do not have much spending power for us currently we cannot run our business on that especially with 2-4 mini grids when you add 50-100 you make N500,000 or N1 million and you make it in a number of places, you would see significant numbers but for us we run our company and pay salaries from our commercial projects. We don’t touch the revenue from our mini grids, we only use it to do the operation from our mini grid and save to service our loans but we believe that as we scale up we would see much improvement. What about tariffs, how do you structure yours? The bottom-line is the cheaper your capital expenditure, the cheaper your tariff. If you build expensively, your tariff will be high and there is no way the community will pay.  Here we don’t charge for construction in our company so the cost of our engineers we don’t put it on our projects especially when we have an obligation to an investor, our goal is to first of all, meet that obligation and then we can make profit afterward. In Nigeria today you would find that tariff ranges N120 to N180 per kilowatt hour that’s where you find almost all developers but our own tarrif is between N120 and N140. We have never exceeded N140. What are your thoughts on regulation in the sector? I do not understand the way we think in Nigeria because if you go to other countries you would see that they have completely removed duty on the importation of solar products. We can’t have a country that is producing 4,000-6,000 megawatt of power for 180 million people and then you have South Africa which produces 40,000-45,000 megawatts for 55 million people which is 15 times what Nigeria is producing and for a quarter of Nigeria’s population and then the government is discouraging people are trying to gear power through other source while claiming to be supporting local production. People need to go to the rural area to appreciate the work being done in those areas. If you stay in the urban area and put 10 percent duty on panel, you would make your money because urban residents are making a killing in that sense. We won’t be deterred however by the failure of regulations.