Green World International, producers of herbal products and supplements, has rebranded it range of products and reiterated its commitment towards providing quality products for Nigerians. James Sun, general manager, Lagos branch of the company, who made this known during the official launch of Green World’s brands in Lagos recently, said Nigerians had come to appreciate the value of the supplements for their general health and wellness. Sun stated that Green World rebranded it range of supplements in order to meet the needs of Nigerian users, and to build a steady, harmonious and sincere partnership between the customers, distributors and the company. “That is why this celebration is to move the company to the next level and to bring financial solution and success to our teeming distributors in Nigeria and the world over,” he said “As a transnational group engaged in research and development, we have been improving people’s health and lifestyle through our cutting-edge production technologies. “We have successfully opened up global markets in Africa, Eurasia, Asia and North America with over 40 overseas branches and offices serving and supporting its business partners all over the world, including Nigeria,” he further said. Also speaking during the launch, Funmi Ayodele, CEO, Kings& Queens Venture Brand, a top distributor, said the company was bringing financial solution to millions of lives, not only in Nigeria but the world over. “Green World has achieved outstanding progress in researches of using plant essence to counteract cancer, as well as enhance the lives of people the world over including Nigeria,” Ayodele said. She explained that the company has over eighty leading varieties which can be classified into eight unique categories such as health care products, food, health care devices, personal care products, skin care products, home care products, tourmaline devices and ornament, and organic and bio-fertilizer. Speaking on efficacy of the herbal products, another top distributor, Sunday Oyeniran, said the supplements have helped to prevent and cure numerous diseases. “In a world where diseases are countless and are on the rise per day, there is the urgent need to stay safe and to treat these health challenges. These supplements give you the possibility of a better, longer and a healthier life,” Oyeniran said. “The products are superb because they are made from herbal extracts. As an, African, you know that herbs are very effective,” he added.  Josephine Okojie