The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has interrogated the Clerk to the National Assembly, Mohammed Sani Omolori, on issues related to records of finances of the Assembly as well as the inauguration of the Ninth National Assembly, BusinessDay has learnt. Checks at the National Assembly on Wednesday, revealed that Omolori was invited to the headquarters of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Tuesday, May 14, 2019 and interrogated for six hours beginning from 11am to 5pm. Apart from initial questions on records of finances of the National Assembly, it was gathered that Omolori was asked a specific question on the method of election of the Presiding Officers of the Ninth National Assembly. When contacted, authorities at the EFCC confirmed Omolori’s interrogation. The EFCC source however would not want his name mentioned because he was not authorized to speak on the matter. Findings revealed that operatives of the anti-graft agency seized Omolori’s international passport. It was also learnt that other key officials of the National Assembly including the Clerk of the Senate, Clerk of the House of Representatives as well as their deputies would be invited to the commission on Thursday. Investigations showed that before Omolori’s invitation, the former Clerk to the National Assembly, Salisu Abubakar Maikasuwa, was equally quizzed. A National Assembly source hinted that Maikasuwa was quizzed shortly before Omolori got to the EFCC office and the two met there. On how Omolori got invited to the EFCC, the National Assembly source said that he was initially informed by one of his top security aides that the EFCC chairman, Ibrahim Magu, wanted to see him. But on getting to the EFCC headquarters, Omolori was told that Magu had left the office and had left instruction that another EFCC officer should attend to him. Efforts to speak with Omolori on the matter proved abortive as he was said to be attending to crucial management issues at the time of filing this report.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja