 The Federal Government of Nigeria has upgraded the Benin Airport to perform night flights and flights during low visibility with the installation of Precision Approach Lighting System and Instrument Landing System Category II, commissioned by Hadi Sirika, the Minister of State for Aviation.  Sirika during the commissioning of the equipment at Benin Airport said Gowin Obaseki, the governor of the state, had expressed his worries on why aircraft could not land at night, during bad weather and low visibility and why there was no ILS.  “From now on, you have the Instrument Landing System which can allow pilots in reduced visibility and bad weather to be able to shoot on approach and land in Benin, just like they will do in London. And also, it is no longer closure from 6pm. The operational capability of the airport has improved with the installation of these equipment,” he said.  The minister also said that the Federal Ministry of Transportation (Aviation) through Nigeria Meteorological Services (NiMET) had constructed and donated a meteorological station to the University of Benin (UNIBEN).  He hinted on a plan to construct a cargo terminal at the Benin Airport. “Here in Benin, We will site an Agro-allied Cargo Terminal. We will soon commence civil works and the governor had promised the state participation.”  Obaseki, in his response acknowledged a cordial relationship with the Federal Government to be able to partner on projects. He noted that Benin Airport was one of the oldest airports in Nigeria, having been built over 60 years ago. “It is today being upgraded so that it can be ranked as an airport to match any other airport in this world by equipping it with the kind of instrument which a modern day airport should have,” he said.  He said the new air transportation infrastructure would complement the effort being made by the state in agriculture, industrialisation, tourism and culture, as well as education. “What it means for us is that there is no excuses. Once people know that you can get in and out of Benin, then it helps business,” he said.  Obaseki expressed his appreciation to the minister on the NiMET upgrade of its facilities and the equipment donated to Edo State. “That donation in my view is one of the most significant investment anybody, any government and any city can make in the world today, because it helps you predict the weather accurately.”