Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo state has assured workers in the state that his administration would pay the N30,000 new minimum wage. Akeredolu who spoke on Wednesday at the 2019 Workers’ Day celebration in Akure, the state capital noted that workers welfare is paramount to the government. The governor said: “Let me inform our workers today that Ondo state government will pay the new minimum wage as approved by law. ” The welfare of workers is paramount to us and we believe you must get your pay because you are very important to us. The new minimum wage is non-negotiable,it is your right. “We all know that the 18,000 cannot take you home ,but hopefully this new 30,000 will take you home. “This Government will pay the Minimum Wage. We, however, admonish our colleagues in service to reciprocate all the good gestures of the Government, and the sacrifices made by those who are not employed by the State, to rededicate themselves and embrace the best practices for progress.” Akeredolu while appreciating the supports of workers in the state to his administration, urged them to rededicate themselves for the task ahead. The governor who had offset six of the seven months arrears of salaries inherited by his administration said the roles played by civil servants cannot be over-emphasized. The state NLC chairman, Sunday Adeleye and his TUC counterpart Hellen Odofin commended the governor for his commitment to workers’ welfare. The labour leaders advised the state government as a matter of urgency ensure that teachers are employed into primaries schools across the state. “The alarming rate of shortage of teachers in Ondo state public schools is a great concern. “Sir, for Ondo state not to lose its place of pride in the education sector of this country, we passionately appeal that the state government looks into the issue of dearth of teachers in the public primary and secondary schools, since most citizens cannot afford private education for their children,” the TUC chairman said. Responding, Akeredolu disclosed that he had held several talks with the chairman of the State Universal Basic Education (SUBEC) Oladunni Odu on the need to engage more hands in the state public schools. He assured all stakeholders in the education sector that the process for recruitment of teachers would commenced next week.  YOMI AYELESO, Akure