Presidency has debunked claims the Federal government gave the Pan Fulani organization, Miyetti Allah N100b to end killing of farmers and kidnapping in the country. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, in a statement dismissed the claims saying that the issue of money was never raised at the meeting with the group The reaction came on the heels of public outcry over reports that federal government gave the group the funds But in the statement issued on Friday, Shehu said Presidency notes “ the statement by Ohaneze this morning, who expressed concern about an allegation that government gave N100 billion to Miyetti Allah for dubious reasons. “As I said on Channels TV, it is an absolute falsehood. The issue of money was never raised at any of the meetings between the representatives of government and Miyetti Allah. “If they had raised it, this government would have dismissed them as yet another dubious group, like the many making claims to be representing our trusting people but serving their own interests. He disclosed that Presidency choose again to speak on this because it is dangerous for the public to ignore rumours aimed at inciting people against each other or against the government. He noted that the “people spreading such rumours should be helped to see the truth and participate in nation building, and not become crisis messengers. “As the President has stated time and again, transparency and dialogue are essential for public enlightenment and nation building. Shehu who noted that the “Miyetti Allah, like any other trade, community, ethnic organization or interest group is a legal stake holder in our nation and should be respected”added that “We maintain that the government needs to engage all stakeholders and seek partnership in building our country” Shehu who stated that Presidency is pleased that Afenifere and Ohaneze Ndigbo “found our insights worthy of attention, even when they disagreed with our view that they, as socio-cultural associations, represent same interests as Miyetti Allah, an association of Fulani herders” “The point both socio-cultural groups missed, however, by insisting that government should not to talk to Miyetti Allah is the need to address and engage Nigeria’s ethnic, religious, cultural and economic plurality that was evident when General Yakubu Gowon introduced National Youth Service Corps, NYSC. The need to engage all groups of Nigeria is as much relevant today as it was then. “The Presidency’s position is that President Muhammadu Buhari’s government is equipped to address these issues. The security challenges faced by Nigeria today make the task of addressing the issues very urgent.
Presidency stated that activities of Miyetti Allah do not benefit selected ethnicities or Muslims only, but everyone. “Long before petroleum became the core of Nigerian economy, agriculture was the main source of Nigerian wealth. Cattle, hides and skin were a major part of Nigerian export.
“It is right to state that there are criminals among every group in Nigeria and in every country.  There are criminals among the northern population as there are in the southern part of the country. It is not good to generalise blames. “The government will engage each stakeholder and create dialogue between, and among, different groups  Tony Ailemen, Abuja