Nigeria inches closer to zero gas flare, stable electric supply with Pan Ocean’s new gas processing plant. Pan Ocean Oil Corporation Limited, operator of OML98, joint venture (JV) with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), and Ovade-Ogharefe Gas Processing Plant, is set to bring Nigeria closer to the zero gas flare and stable electricity supply target of the Federal Government. The unveiling ceremony of its 200mscfd Ovade-Ogharefe gas processing plant, scheduled for June 2019, will mark a new era as much needed gas supply will become available for the NIPP Power Plant at Ihobbor, Edo State. The gas processing plant has two phases; this trailblazing project will contribute significantly to local LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) supply, and reduce waste occasioned by gas flaring. The second phase of the gas plant has 200mmscf/d capacity; it incorporates a cryogenic process that delivers bone-dry gas streams, LPG and other natural gas liquid streams for domestic markets. The facility is equipped with 29 storage tanks built to store, approximately 194,400 gallons of Propane and 244,640 gallons of Propane/Butane mix (LPG) from an in-feed gas of 200mmscf/d. Over the years, Nigeria has imported 48.27 percent of locally consumed LPG despite its abundant deposits. The country imported 42.09 million metric tonnes of LPG in December 2018 majorly from the United States and Argentina, according to data from the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA). As a major indigenous oil and gas industry player, Pan Ocean is poised to set the pace in achieving the gas flare-out objective of the Federal Government. Beginning in 1984, Pan Ocean started to implement an initiative on gas utilization, despite the challenges of an underdeveloped Nigerian Gas Market. As a key objective, Pan Ocean strives to advance efficiency, reduce operating expenditure, and maintain a healthy balance with the environment in all its activities. The harnessing of its gas resources is no exception. Pan Ocean also plans to unveil two other major projects in June, the 160mbpd, 20” x 67-kilometer underground pipeline from Amukpe to the Escravos export terminal and a flow station at OML-147 flow station at Owa- Alidinma, Delta State.