One of the world’s major browser developers Opera, developer of the most popular mobile browser OperaMini, is set to launch a new platform called Opera Ads, a content-based native advertising platform for its more than 30 million users in Nigeria. The Opera Ads is expected to serve the needs of digital local marketers and give advertisers a unique opportunity to reach and engage with more than 320 million Opera users worldwide. “With Opera Ads, we open the Opera ecosystem to advertisers allowing them to do more precisely targeted campaigns and improve the control of their media buy,” Per Wetterdal, VP Global Business Development at Opera said. “We secure your ads will be served with a premium placement in connection to an engaging content experience.” Based on user intent and contextual relevance, Opera Ads offers an intelligent advertising solution to Nigerian digital agencies, publishers and brands to connect and engage with the Opera audiences at a global scale with geo-targeting capabilities. The platform offers transparency, unique and controllable ad placements, reach and budget management based on the support of fixed and dynamic pricing models. The new platform  is available in both traditional and programmatic buying models. In this way, Opera Ads provides a trusted and relevant environment for users, advertisers and simplifies the campaign performance evaluation. Opera Ads is the platform-of-choice for advertisers seeking the opportunity to reach a scaled and engaged audience, in a highly transparent fashion across the fastest growing mobile digital markets. Opera holds 47 percent of the browser market share in Nigeria with more than 30 million monthly active users across its mobile products. Founded in 1995 in Norway, Opera delivers browsers and AI-driven digital content discovery solutions to more than 320 million people worldwide. The company remains one of the most innovative browser creators in the world. Opera is listed on Nasdaq under the OPRA ticker symbol.  DIPO OLADEHINDE