Transsion Holdings, a Chinese firm has launched ‘Joga Comedy App’ to provide unlimited funny jokes, videos, memes street interviews and loads of pranks to Nigerians. The app is the latest comedy app for smartphones users in Africa and Nigeria in particular. It is completely built and designed to give a maximum high definition of hilarious content. “The Joga app is like our Nigerian Instagram that allows you post only comedy and funny contents. It is a three in one package that allows pictures, text and video post unlike other social media apps,” Joana Achoba, team lead, Joga said. “The unique thing about the Joga apps is that it allows direct and easy download of any content without having to download another app,” Achoba said. She stated that the app, unlike other apps, allows you to download and share videos and pictures directly, explore hot and trending topics and also provide the opportunity to connect with other users. She noted that the app allows influencers post and earn money for every quality content. According to her, Joga users are of all ages because comedy and fun, in general, is embraced by both the young and old. Since its launch, the app has recorded over 100 thousand active users monthly. Also speaking, Louis Awode, content operations specialist, Joga, said that users can customise their Joga experience by clicking on tags that are most important to them to create a personalized feed content. “We understand the fact that suicide cases are on the rise in Nigeria because the country is in distress. With the Joga comedy app, Nigerians can forget their worries as it brings comedy directly to them by just a single click,” Awode said. “Most of our active users currently are, youths, comedians and upcoming influencers” he added. The app recently, partnered with one of Africa’s biggest news aggregator, Scooper to have its channel created on its platform in a bid to increase its reach across Africa. As a way of reducing the rate of unemployment in the country, the Joga App has opened its platforms to intending content creators to earn as they post. JOGA other ecological chain consists of products such as Boomplay, Tecno, Infinix, Itel amongst others.  Josephine Okojie