Sometimes, they say that the best way to experience love is through a book. Well, fill your weekend with these amazing love stories: All Men in Lagos are Married by Ruthie Omomo Life finds Ada in the city of Lagos with her own heady plans to get married.Ada shares with us the good, bad and ugly of finding Mr. Right in this series. Amidst humour and stark reality, this first of the series is a revelation to most single women and could even be said to be an experience manual. Read here Remembering Love by Amina Sanni-kamal We find the everlasting power of true love in the touching story of Derek and Elizabeth whose love is tested by the unseen forces of nature. Elizabeth’s display of love and care to Derek in his comatose state is silently appreciated until Derek wakes up and all hell breaks loose. Derek finds himself in a dilemma when he cannot recognize the face whose voice has been a soothing form of strength. He does not just struggle with a lost memory but an intense hatred he cannot explain for his girlfriend of ten years. This book answers the reader’s one question “can true love conquer all?” Read here Becoming Mrs Carter by Tomilola Coco Adeyemo Love finds Muna even when she isn’t searching for it in the handsome and extremely wealthy TadeCarter.Tade on the other hand, isn’t interested in a quest for love but things change for him when he meets Muna.
The instant attraction they both feel is undeniable but there’s only one barrier to it all; Muna’s past.
Tade and Muna must find a way to pass this hurdle without quenching the fire of love growing between them.This love story teaches the strength in forgiveness and the power of love.Read here Beautifully Flawed by Arinola Araba Araba tells her beautiful story of finding hope and peace out of pain. She shares her experience from the perspective of a child in a chaotic household. She shares her pre-divorce experiences, how she got the will to leave an abusive relationship and how it affected her and her child’s mental health. Araba’s story gives hope and faith to every abused woman and aligns the place of God’s grace and mercy to every broken person. This book would leave you feeling in the possibility of beauty out of dirt.Read here