Bonnadium Development Foundation, a non-governmental organisation has concluded two weeks skill acquisition programme for persons with disability (PWD) in Abia State. The training, which held at the Women Development Centre, Umuahia, the Abia State capital, was sponsored by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), to empower the targeted group in the State. The benefiting PWDs, who were drawn from different Local Government Areas of the state, were trained in GSM repairs, photography, wig making, bead making, shoe and bag making, confectionary, makeup, manicure and pedicure. Kenneth Amogu, the programme facilitator, explained that the training was designed to empower people living with disability with relevant skills that would enable them be gainfully employed, make money, support themselves, their families and be better persons in the society. He applauded NDDC for sponsoring the programme and appreciated the trainers for impacting on the trainees, who according to him, have started making money already with their acquired skills. At the end of the training, Queen Ekpo (on wheel chair) a member of the confectionary class, emerged overall best trainee, while Grace Eke, (blind), who was trained in bead making, came second best and Enwereji Chinedu Samuel of the photography class, emerged third best trainee. Stanley Onyebuchi, chairman, PWD, Abia State, described the training as timely, noting that it has enabled people with disability, to have skill for their own development. He appealed to NDDC to complete the remaining process, by making the starter packs and mobility aids available to the PWDs without delay, to enable them put their skills in action. Nwanosike ThankGod, one of the trainees, while appreciating NDDC for sponsoring the training, also thanked Bonnadium Development Foundation and Kenneth Amogu, for their expertise. Madubuike Stella, one of the resource persons, observed that the workshop provided an opportunity for the trainers to impact on the PWDs in Abia State, despite their challenges. She encouraged all the trainees to make good and adequate use of the skills acquired to make money and contribute to the society. The trainees will receive starter packs and mobility aids from NDDC to begin their businesses.  GODFREY OFURUM, Aba