The newly appointed Director-General of National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, Shuaibu Ibrahim, on assumption of office, read riot act to staff, stressing that any insidious act would not be treated lightly. Ibrahim, who said this in Abuja in his acceptance speech as the 18th chief executive officers, urged staff to demonstrate high level of professionalism aimed at meeting the mandate of the scheme. He maintained that corruption should be avoided as it could thwart the effort of the federal government. He said “My vision will be to sustain effective utilization of the potential of the corps members and prioritize the security and welfare of both corps members and the staff of the scheme”. Ibrahim, speaking further pledged to strengthen the existing collaborations with stakeholders and also rejig the NYSC ventures in line with the NYSC Act, as well as strive to sustain the tremendous achievements of the scheme and take NYSC to a higher level. The new DG hails from Nasarawa Local Government of Nasarawa State and obtained his Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees in History from the University of Jos in 1989 and 1992 respectively. He equally bagged a PhD in History in 2007 from University of Abuja. He was the pioneer Registrar, Nigerian Army University, Biu; Head Department of History and War Studies, Nigeria Defence Academy, Kaduna; Research Officer Institute of Army Education; Military Assistant to the DG NYSC, 1996-1999; Staff Officer I Military History, National Defence College (NDC), 2004-2009 and Senior Military Instructor Nigerian Army School of Education 2009-2011, amongst others. Suleiman Kazaure, former director general of NYSC tasked the member of staff to extend maximum support to the new leadership of the scheme for greater achievements. Kazaure, in his remark appealed to staff to extend the good will he enjoyed to his successor, adding that the success and failure of the scheme squarely reside on their corporation. Kazaure added that “Given the tasking nature of the NYSC operation notwithstanding, I am confident that given your experience and love for the job, the Almighty God will continue to sustain and grant you success, as the new DG take over today, I enjoin you to Accord him the same level of coorperation and support.”  Cynthia Egboboh, Abuja