Paga, leading mobile money company has recently hosted its first annual workshop on security in the mobile money payment ecosystem across Nigeria. The workshop with the theme ‘Security Organisations: What you need to know about mobile money and payment in Nigeria’, created an opportunity for security agencies in to be trained on security in the Nigerian mobile money space. “The security forum put together by Pagatech is a major step in the right direction. Paga as a responsible company has taken the lead in sensitizing security operatives and other stakeholders on how the payment systems work in Nigeria,” Victor Olojo, president, AMMAN said in a statement made available to BusinessDay. More encouraging for us as an association, is that the measures will go a long way in correcting the many instances of harassment, intimidation and detaining of agents across the country over irregular payment issues beyond our control,” Olojo said. Paga has been at the forefront of driving financial inclusion with support from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The company has created financial access services points (agent network) across the length and breadth of Nigeria processing payments and making life possible for the financially excluded. Speaking also, Akinwande Ogundana, assistant superintendent of Police said “this workshop is expository, informative and educative. It makes me understand more about the importance of mobile money operators’ in moving forward the economy of a nation like ours.” “The mobile money operators also enhanced the ease of doing business in the country and it made me to realize that there must be a good synergy between the operators and security agencies to enhance the safety of all Nigerians and foreigners in their businesses. Jay Alabraba, co-founder and director – business development, Paga said that Paga as an organization constantly seek opportunities to learn and understand how payments are processed and other extraneous variables that could hinder a successful transaction. “This security conference which will be held annually is a great opportunity for both Paga and security agencies to rub minds together and have a smooth working relationship,” Alabraba said.  Josephine Okojie