Liverpool shocked the sporting world and progressed to the Champions League final after a stunning 4-0 win over Barcelona at Anfield on Tuesday night. Trailing by 3 goals from the first leg of the semifinal tie, not many gave the Jurgen Klopp’s Reds much hope, but two goals apiece from Divock Origi and game-changing half-time substitute Georginio Wijnaldum saw them progress 4-3 on aggregate. In a truly remarkable and intense game not only did Liverpool erase that disadvantage inside 56 minutes, they went on to score a winner inside 90 minutes and, remarkably, kept Lionel Messi quiet. For only the fourth time in the competition’s history a team was eliminated from a knockout tie having won the first leg by three or more goals – the last occasion being Barcelona against Roma in last season’s quarter-final. Origi’s timing in scoring his first Champions League goals was impeccable, as was Wijnaldum’s introduction for injured defender Andy Robertson for the second half. Liverpool needed an early goal to increase the already vibrant atmosphere and Origi obliged when he struck in only the seventh minute. Within 11 minutes of the restart Dutch midfielder Wijnaldum had scored twice and the tie was level. Some brilliant quick-thinking from Trent Alexander-Arnold at a corner teed up an unmarked Origi as the Barca defence slept on the job and the comeback was complete. Jose Mourinho has paid a glowing tribute to Jurgen Klopp’s work at Liverpool after Tuesday’s remarkable win over Barcelona sealed back-to-back Champions League finals. Mourinho has not been shy about aiming digs at Klopp during their time both managing in the Premier League, but was effusive with his praise after the game. “I didn’t expect [this],” he told beIN Sport. “I said if it’s possible, Anfield is one of the places to make it possible. “But, for me, this has one name – Jurgen. “This is not about tactics, not about philosophy. This is about heart and soul and fantastic empathy he has created with that group of players. “They were at risk of finishing a fantastic season with nothing to celebrate and now they are one step away from being European champions. “This is about him. This is a reflection of his personality, don’t give up, his fighting spirit, every player giving everything. “Everything today is about Jurgen’s mentality.” Former Liverpool players Robbie Fowler and Michael Owen lauded the Reds’ performance. Appearing as a pundit on BT Sport, Fowler said: “Before the game, we were talking about all the superlatives we can about Messi. We can run out of superlatives for Liverpool.” Owen added: “This place has seen some of the most amazing nights, European nights, of football and it’s right up there with them. Possibly the best.”Former Manchester United defender Rio Ferdinand joined in the praise. “What they’ve produced here is breathtaking and you can do nothing but respect the team, the management, and the way this club have conducted themselves, especially on a night like tonight.” A communal singing of club anthem You’ll Never Walk Alone capped the perfect evening as Liverpool now have a chance of redemption in Madrid next month.  Anthony Nlebem