Up north in Nigeria there are some popular delicacies, unique to the people that have also become the toast of non-indigenes. Amongst these are snacks such as kuli-kuli(groundnut snack), suya and kilishi(roasted beef). Others include tuwo shinkafa (made from rice) and drinks such as kunu (made from maize or sorghum), fura de nono(millet and milk) and of course,  zobo( from dried Roselle plant flowers) , which the Federal Institute of Industrial Research(FIIRO), Oshodi has upgraded to the level of export. Though these food products have remained at the local production level, for several decades, a distinguished Nigerian by the name, Badamasi Burji (Managing Director/CEO of First Class Refreshments) saw the immense potentials latent in them. This is especially so if modern technological input could be added in their processing, packaging and marketing. So good, that he did not rest on his oars but decided to give life to his dreams. As at today, the processed and packaged products have spread across Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Amongst the tasty treats we have Kuli-Kully. This is made from ground peanut and seasoning, hardened and given some shapes mostly thin and long or round. Another is Dan Sarki is one of the favourites with the consumers because of its irresistible taste. Though it is made as groundnut prince cookie, ingredients such as sugar, eggs and milk are added. Nutritionally, it is rich in protein, fibre, minerals and vitamins. On its part, Kilishi came into being as man’s effort to preserve excess meat. It is roasted and prepared with pepper and mixed spices. According to Burji, the demand for packaged kilishi has become so high from outside the country that he sees it as a “potential foreign exchange booster”. There are other popular snacks such as Alkali, made up of twists of high wheat dough soaked in honey. Nakiya, is the snack made from local white rice with indigenous spices such as kanampari, yaji, masoro(black pepper), ginger and water. It is in hot demand at wedding parties. Others such as Danbun Nama(packaged chicken) and Danbun Nama( packaged beef) also join the fray. While Dubulan is made from sugar, egg and vegetable oil fried into golden colour, Bakilawais a snack of Arab origin made from dough of flour, groundnut mixed with syrup. Not done, fast- selling packaged First Class drinks also making waves in the international market. These include fruit juices from pineapple, watermelon, orange, ginger, tamarind, tiger nut and of course, zobo. With a virile Vision: “To produce agricultural products which are made 100 % in Nigeria and the favourite of all tribes and with the potential of patronage abroad and at the same time viable, feasible and profitable”,  the food company has started to make waves here and abroad.  All the same, questions are being asked on what makes the products better than others. Said Burji:  “Our answer lies in the universally accepted axiom that the taste of the pudding is in the eating. We are irrevocably committed to strict adherence to the three cardinal principles that underpin our Vision and Mission. The first is TASTE as the best way to beat competition. We challenge ourselves to as much as possible to get ingredients that are organic; thereby making the taste entirely unique. This makes our customers to succinctly describe such taste as out of this world. But the bigger statement on this is that the health and wellbeing of our customers are topmost in our priorities.” Well said, one would say. But there is more to what makes First Class Refreshments stand out above its peers. Furthermore, he states without equivocation that: “Our next uncompromising principle is QUALITY. In ensuring this, we always strive to keep to our promise; any quantity on the label is the minimum of what you get, and surely no less. We strive to always give more at the price of less. We adhere to high standards to give you maximum quality.” Another exciting pledge to the customer, is it not? Yes, of course. And he adds that the: “The third principle is predicated on the firm belief that you, the customer is the king. We therefore, cannot afford to take you for granted. Your state of HYGIENE matters to us. We shall therefore, go all out to maintain the highest state of hygiene in our environment. This stretches to the entire process, from picking the right type of ingredients to making it ready for you to eat. We follow that all of that meticulously”. Not long ago its First  Class Kully Cookies and Refreshments Kitchen, Store and Restaurants was commissioned by Mr. Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and supported  by Alhaji Ahmad Rabiu, Commissioner of Commerce, Kano state,  Engineer Emeka Ike, President, Actors Guild of Nigeria as well as Senior Members of Nigeria’s Guild of Editors and top businessmen. As a leading Nigerian food production company that produces African foods and snacks as well as the supply of agricultural products it has taken part in some international Trade Fairs to showcase its prime products to the world. Amongst these are the 23rd Ghana international Trade Fair, the 24th Edition of Dubai Gulfood, the 2019 Cote d’Voire International Trade Fair as well as the 16th Malaysian International Halal Showcase, 2019. Aware of the power of partnerships to drive its Vision and Mission statements, it is a member of the Kano Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (KACCIMA), the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry(LCCI), Nigerian-American Chamber of  Commerce(NACCI) and  Nigerian-Malaysian Business Corridor(NMBC) amongst others. Having shown the readiness of the company to meet the demands of the customers, Burji states that there is little wonder that demand for their products is on the upswing. He reiterates that the company will not compromise on the qualities of Taste, Quality and Hygiene.  The journey has been so far, so good and we urge it to keep flying the Nigerian flag higher.  Ayo Oyoze Baje