SONA Group’s Chairman Mr. A.K. Mirchandani was declared one of the top 25 CEOs and adulated for his leadership as well as the company’s unflagging contribution to growth, development and business opportunities across various Nigerian industry sectors at the recently concluded Top 25 CEOs & Next Bulls Awards. The ceremony, which held Friday, May 10, 2019 at EKO Hotel & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos was put together by Business Day, in conjunction with the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) to recognize and appreciate key industry players who have remained steadfast in their efforts to see Nigeria’s industry sectors grow, despite the country’s economic challenges. During his appreciation speech, Mr.  A.K. dedicated the award to the entire staff of the company whilst thanking them for their ardent dedication. He stated “This award is not for one person but a team of 6000 people who have all contributed to this achievement, and I say a very big thank you.” The Chairman went on to praise the organizers of the event; thanking them for honoring the efforts of industry players and stakeholders to creating more business opportunities for various industry sectors in Nigeria, so as to bring about continuous growth to the nation.    During his welcome address, the Publisher and Managing Director of Business Day Mr. Frank Aigbogun elucidated the purpose of the awards, describing it as an avenue to drive businesses to do more for the development and growth of the Nigerian industry sectors. He advised attendees on leadership and growth, saying “businesses that we lead must focus on growing their bottom line continuously, so they can be a shining and guiding light for others looking to come into this country and together, we can continue to create jobs for the youths of Nigeria.” Chief Executive Officer Nigerian Stock Exchange; Oscar Onyema congratulated the winners of the awards and expressed the NSE’s interest in working with industry leaders to help precipitate Africa’s growth. He stated “At the Nigerian Stock Exchange, we want to be your trusted partner. We want to work with you to grow your businesses and find various avenues to create more growth opportunities in Nigeria and Africa at large.” A number of other estimable organizations were also recognized and presented with awards at the ceremony for their noteworthy contributions, including Chemical and Allied Products Plc, Aje Limited, Enyo Retail and Supply, Alpha Mead Group, Eterna Oil Plc and a host of others.