The premium league of the the Porsche SUV segment came alive last week with the arrival of the latest generation of Porsche’s most successful SUV model line. Its availability continues the exciting story of the brand since 2002 when it debuted as Porsche’s first off-road variant and first vehicle in the German automaker’s line with four doors. Available at Porsche Centre Lagos, Victoria Island with the prices ranging from N46. 3million for the base model, N53.2million for customised version of the Cayenne S and N87.5million for the Cayenne Turbo, the franchise said the brand is admired by many high profile customers. Completely redesigned from ground to up, the Cayenne brings closer its racetrack roots and offers greater versatility and more performance than ever before. Powerful turbocharged engines, enhanced chassis systems, a range off-road modes and a sharper design underpin the model’s credentials as a true sports car in its segment. Additional enhancements to the latest generation also include intelligent assistance systems and more connectivity features aimed at offering improved driver and passenger comfort. General manager, Porsche Centre Lagos, Anurag Shah, said: “Since its initial launch, the Cayenne has been one of the most popular models in Nigeria, and I have no doubt that the third generation, which offers even more sports car performance and practicality, will continue this success story. “For me, the new Cayenne’s versatility is truly unique. It is at home on any road, but it is equally ready to explore new terrain. It enjoys a short sprint as much as a long road trip, and the commute to work as much as a lap on the track. It is capable of producing a superb drive experience virtually anywhere, and that is really what sets the Cayenne apart from any other SUV. We’re very excited to be welcoming it to Nigeria today’’. The Porsche general manager said. The bold new design evolution of the brand does not only stay true to the unmistakable identity of the Cayenne but delivers a more streamlined, athletic impression to complement an increased length and lower height. It combines powerful and efficient engines with a new, responsive eight-speed Tiptronic S gearbox which enhances capabilities thanks to shorter response times and sportier ratios in the lower gears. The six-cylinder turbo engine delivers 450 Nm of torque and 340 hp, a 40 hp increase on its predecessor and reaches 100 km/h in 6.2 seconds, or just 5.9 seconds with the optional Sport Chrono Package, and has a top speed of 245 km/h. The Cayenne S is powered by a 2.9-litre, biturbo-charged V6 engine with 440 hp (an increase of 20 hp) and 550 Nm of torque. It reaches 100 km/h in 5.2 seconds (4.9 seconds with the optional Sport Chrono Package) and boasts a top speed of 265 km/h. Furthermore, the pronounced bonnet, redesigned headlight contour and trademark large air intakes underline the Cayenne’s improved driving dynamics from the front. Narrower side windows, a redesigned rear wing, wide rear end with integrated light strip and wider alloy wheels further enhance and emphasise its sports car genes. The new Cayenne offers a spacious cabin, with several comfort and convenience features throughout. Luggage compartment has been increased by 100 litres, just as the advanced cockpit concept brings the vehicle and the occupants closer through increased connectivity and intuitive controls, even as the entre console with direct touch control (DTC) and a new 12.3-inch touch display for the Porsche Communication Management (PCM) act as the driver’s interface to all vehicle functions. PCM can be configured for up to six individual profiles to store a large number of interior settings, as well as specifications for lights, driving programmes and assistance systems. For the first time, the Cayenne is available with rear-axle steering as an option, and a mixed tyre configuration. The tyres are also larger than before, ranging from 19 to 21 inches. Both developments are derived from the 911 to improve agility, stability and safety, whilst rear-axle steering also reduces the turning circle by 0.6 metres for even greater practicality. Adaptive sports seats with 18-way adjustment, unique stitching and raised side bolsters come as standard in the top-of-the-range model. The Turbo comes equipped with a BOSE® Surround Sound System to deliver true clarity of sound to all five seats for even more drive enjoyment.  MIKE OCHONMA