The All Progressives Congress (APC) has welcomed the Supreme Court’s dismissal of the appeal filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar against President Muhammadu Buhari’s 2019 election victory. APC congratulated Nigerians, the President; Buhari, Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo; party leaders, members and supporters on the Supreme Court’s verdict, stressing that, going forward, the APC government will continue to focus on delivering its Next Level plans for the country. Lanre Issa-Onilu, APC National Publicity Secretary in a statement in Abuja said, following the earlier judgement of the 2019 Presidential Election Petition Tribunal which dismissed in its entirety the PDP and Atiku’s petition, the Apex Court was apt in dismissing the appeal for lacking merit. He said, the Party hailed the Judiciary for standing firm in the face of the PDP and Atiku’s subterfuge and for siding with the Nigerian electorate who through their votes decided to do away with PDP’s ignominious past and re-elect the President Buhari-led APC administration which has ushered in a new era of progressive growth for our country. “With the ruling of the Supreme Court, which has finally affirmed President Buhari’s election victory, we enjoin the PDP and Atiku to jettison their destructive and disruptive agenda against Nigeria, which they have made up their minds to pursue for the next four years. “The PDP and Atiku should not confuse opposition politics for their unpatriotic agenda. Democratic politics cannot be practiced in the state of anarchy, confusion which the PDP and Atiku wish to achieve. Such diabolic plan will definitely fail”, he stated. Similarly, Speaker of the House of the Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila described the victory of President Buhari at the Supreme Court as a victory for democracy. Gbajabiamila, who said though the victory of the President at the February presidential polls was never in doubt, however, expressed his appreciation of the final victory, whereby Nigerian democracy was tested by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker said, “I want to use this opportunity to congratulate the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces on his final electoral victory that was challenged by PDP and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. “It is my conviction that this final victory, which has never been in doubt since the conclusion of the election would allow the President to concentrate on his determination to champion good governance for the generality of Nigerians, the reason why he was voted for in the first place. “I also congratulate our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the victory. This goes to show that the party has come of age in party politics and in putting forward the best hands that can and will take Nigeria to greater heights through the fulfillment of our Manifestos and support for government policies. “I want to urge, Mr Atiku Abubakar, who has put to test our justice delivery system by contesting the election result from the lowest to the highest court, and the PDP to accept the judgment in good faith and in the spirit of sportsmanship and help the government in building a strong, prosperous and united Nigeria. I rejoice with President Buhari and our party, APC over this victory”, Gbajabiamila added.  James Kwen, Abuja