Ahead of the 2nd Edition of the Nigeria Diaspora Investment Summit (NDIS) scheduled to take place on 6th -7th of November, 2019, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, (NIDCOM) Abike Dabiri-Erewa, has said that the second edition of NDIS, 2019, will focus on key Sectorial areas to include: Tourism and Hospitality, Sports, Infrastructure and Real Estate, Agriculture Health Care and Allied Services. Dabiri Erewa said this during a press conference on Thursday in Abuja, adding that other important sectors such as Waste Management and Environmental Remediation and Transportation, Entertainment and Technology and Innovation and many others will also feature in the summit. Dabiri-Erewa further encapsulated the essence of the Investment Summit with the theme: “Leveraging Diaspora Investment For Economic Growth.” According to her: “The Summit therefore underscores the that Nigerians in Diaspora who currently account for the highest net contribution to Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) inflows into the country with $25 billion remitted in 2018, represent a game-changing leverage for the country as the economy exits recession and heads towards growth”. The NIDCOM Chairman maintained that the key targets at the First Edition of the Investment Summit through a collaborative partnership with the Public and organized Private Sector and Banks, over One Hundred businesses and projects ready for investment were identified and attracted. Dabiri-Erewa added that: “this year, we aim to double that number! We also aim to increase the number of participants to Five Hundred and aim to achieve at least hundred closed deals this year”. On concrete deliverables from inaugural Investment Summit, Dabiri-Erewa said there have been Investment in agriculture with some Diasporans involved in Ranching, tourism and Hospitality with hotels being built, Real estate and Schools,   among others. Meanwhile, the Coordinator Nigeria Diaspora Investment Summit (NDIS), Badewa Adejugbe-Williams expressed optimism that investors would cashed-in on the opportunities and portfolios inherent in the summit. She noted that Africa and indeed Nigeria is the last economic frontier for global economic prosperity. A website ahead of the summit has been designed for Nigerians at home and in the Diaspora to register and participate.  The website is www.ndis.gov.ng The Chairman/CEO NIDCOM therefore urged the media to straighten partnership with the following words: “colleagues, as you very well know, we are all in this together. When the nation calls, duty calls.”  Innocent Odoh, Abuja