The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has expressed its readiness to host the world even as Nigeria has started mobilization for the much anticipated Dubai Expo 2020 scheduled to start on October 20, 2020 in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) as the countdown begins with the theme“Connecting Minds, Creating Future.” The UAE Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr. Fahad Al-Taffaq, made this known at a ceremony organized by the embassy in Abuja, stressing that “Dubai and the UAE have been preparing to welcome all nations of the world for this one of kind of event showcasing human brilliance and achievement in which Nigeria has also confirmed its participation among other 190 countries.” The envoy said that the Expo-2020 initiative was conceived on November 27, 2013, with the aim of encouraging visitors to travel to Dubai so that they could contribute toward human development through their actions. Al -Taffaq said further that since the first-ever World Expo took place in Hyde Park; London in 185, there had been landmark inventions. The envoy, who cherished Nigeria’s participation in the event, noted that Nigeria has been allocated ground floor space with huge pavilion with huge offices. “The six month- long exhibition is aimed at uniting the best of trade and invention from all over the world to the UAE. The sub theme for Expo 2020 is ‘opportunity, mobility and sustainability.’ Each pavilion will challenge visitors to realize the importance that they can play to human development through their actions. “Dubai Expo 2020 is a significant event for various reasons. One this is the first world expo ever held in the Middle East, North Africa and South Asia. On the 20 of October 2020, UAE will welcome more than 25 million people to in Dubai. Everyone will have the opportunity to explore what humanity genius  has to offer as well as witness the UEA values of inclusion, tolerance and cooperation,” the envoy said. He added that through the various pavilions, visitors will experience land breaking ideas about the future of education, climate change transport, communication, exportation and many others areas. Also Speaking at the ceremony, Minister of State Trade, Industry and Investment, Maryam Katagum, assured that Nigeria will make adequate mobilization and budgetary provisions to participate fully in the forthcoming event. “My ministry has already started mobilizing and we want to make sure that we make adequate sensitization and adequate budgetary provision for Nigerians to fully participate in the Expo. She said that Dubai has provided a lot of opportunities for the world and has become a centre for science, innovation, education where people from all parts of the world meet, create and innovate a lot of new things. “So we are looking forward to Nigerians participating in networking and bringing a lot of foreign direct investment back into the country. “We are trying to get a lot of our local industries particularly the agro- allied industries because there is lot of agricultural products that could be taken to the United Arab Emirate,” she added.  Innocent Odoh, Abuja