Okadabooks brings you exciting stories for the weekend. Grab a glass of wine and enjoy the ride.  Blissful Summer by Nky Omeka The home she shares with her aunt and baby sister will go up for foreclosure very soon and if that happens, she and her family could end up on the streets. Peyton terribly needs a summer job to help her old aunt out and to save up for college. She encounters the elegant and endearing Shay Hillon and the Hillons invite her to spend the summer in their home. Peyton sees this as a golden opportunity to ask for a job. Then the arrogant and rude Tanner Hillon shows up and it isn’t her intention to fall for him, the problem is she’s a sucker for sexy and attractive guys. They soon discover they have this chemistry but their sizzling romance is under a lot of pressure. What happens when Shay finds out about their relationship? Will Peyton end up being kicked out of the Hillon Mansion and have her dreams of going to college tarnished?ReadNow  Boom Boom by Jude Idada Osaik is an eight-year-old boy. He is charming and has an unusual ability to hear things no one else hears. His world is thrown into disarray when a debilitating disease takes his mother from him. Despite his grief, he has to find a way of saving his little sister, Eghe, from the same disease. Alongside his dad, and Kompa his dog, they begin a race to get her all the help she needs. It is not an easy one, because at every turn there is a new obstacle to avoid and a new hurdle to climb. In this dramatic, fast-paced story of loss, faith and hope, the limits of love, sacrifice, friendship, loyalty and family ties are tested as they struggle to save his sister’s life brings Osaik and those around him to a new knowledge of the world they can see, the world they cannot see, and the part of themselves they never knew existed.ReadNow  Mystery At Ebenezer’sLodge by Dunni Olatunde The Ilesanmi children are on holidays at their grandparents’ house in Ibadan, until their grandfather has to travel to Ilorin urgently. Along with their neighbour, Nosa, they are sent to spend one week in the care of their grandmother’s aunt, 79-year-old Mama Onireke of Ebenezer Lodge. But the old mansion holds more in store for them than a quiet holiday. Someone is getting into the old buildings on the grounds without using the doors. The children are determined to get to the root of the mystery at all costs.ReadNow  After the Storm by Oscar Adeyemi Attractive business mogul, Akeem Kadiri, has just one belief — confidence in himself and his ability to make things happen. Yemi is completely swept off her feet when she meets Akeem during her holidays in the U.K. Despite the differences in their family backgrounds, Yemi feels secure in Akeem’s love for her until events happen that shake her to her very core. Can their love for each other withstand the consequences of their actions? Or will they find it easier to let things take their natural course? ‘After The Storm’ is a story of love, heartbreak, difficult choices and ultimately finding the greatest love of all. ReadNow   