The Nigerian Oscars Selection Committee has picked Genevieve Nnaji’s ‘Lionheart’ as the country’s submission to the International Feature Film category of the 2020 Oscars. The group announced the selection on Wednesday following a statutory vetting and subsequent voting of entries received from Nigerian filmmakers at home and in the Diaspora. Produced by Chinny Onwugbenu, Chichi Nwoko, Genevieve Nnaji, and directed by Genevieve Nnaji, ‘Lionheart’ premiered at the 2018 Toronto International Film Festival, and was acquired on September 7, 2018, as first Netflix original film produced in Nigeria. The film stars Pete Edochie, Genevieve Nnaji, Nkem Owoh, Onyeka Onwenu, Kanayo . O. Kanayo, Chika Okpala, Kalu Ikeagwu, Sanni Mu’azu, Yakubu Mohammed, Ngozi Ezeonu, Peter Okoye (P-square) and Chibuzor Azubuike (Phyno). Released worldwide on January 4, 2019 after a December 2018 theatrical release in Nigeria, ‘Lionheart’, which is Nnaji’s directorial debut, tells the story of a young woman, Adaeze Obiagu (Genevieve Nnaji), who becomes saddled with the responsibility of running her sick father’s business under the suffocating supervision of an uncle, played by Nkem Owoh. Adaeze’s competing business instincts and family obligations become a catalyst for drastic change not everyone is ready to embrace. Since the inauguration of the NOSC in 2014, this is the first time Nigeria is advancing a film to the Oscar, as previous entries received by the committee did not meet basic criteria. Among the films received this year, the NOSC said it picked ‘Lionheart’ for its considerable shots at the rules. The 12-man team boasts of notable Nigeria’s film industry stakeholders of international standing. Read Also: Funding Nollywood for national development: The PPP alternative The team is chaired by Chineze Anyaene, producer and director of ‘Ije’; Nollywood’s remarkable box office earner and foremost filmmaker and Mahmood Ali-balogun, chairman, Audio-visual Rights Society (AVRS) of Nigeria, as vice-chairman. Others include Bruce Ayonote, CEO of Legend Box Office; filmmaker and talent manager, Mildred Okwo; journalist/film critic, Shaibu Husseini; filmmaker/ author, Charles Novia; award winning filmmaker, CJ Obasi; top actor Ramsey Nouah; versatile director and cinematographer, Adetokunbo ‘DJ Tee’ Odubawo; movie producer, Ngozi Okafor; AFRIFF Founder, Chioma Ude and director of Green-whiteGreen, Abba Makama. According to Anyaene, entries received this year show significant improvements from the previous years. “While we cannot say that what we have are the best that Nigeria is capable of producing, it is heart-lifting to know that, from the strength of the entries received this year, we are truly ready for the Oscars. Filmmakers are gradually taking the Oscar rules into consideration, and I have no doubt that it is going to be more competitive, going forward,” she said. The ‘ International Feature Film’ of the Oscars gives opportunity to Nigerian filmmakers living in Nigeria and Diaspora for a shot at the foremost creative industry award scheme globally. Every year, each country outside the United States is expected to submit one film as long as it’s not primarily in English. Films in pidgin, which must be subtitled like any other language films are also considered under this category. Formerly called ‘ Best Foreign Language Film’, 87 countries vied for the shortlisted slots last year, and from a final five Oscar nominations, ‘Roma’, a Mexican film directed by Alfonso Cuarón picked the honour. Also speaking on the reconstituted 12-man committee of Nollywood stakeholders, ahead of the 2020 Academy Awards, Anyaene said, “We do not take this for granted. We hope the committee fulfils its original mandate, which is to give a platform to credible Nigerian films to compete at the prestigious Academy Awards annually. “We could not make any submissions in previous years due to unavailability of qualifying films, but things are looking hopeful… and we are actively working towards having an entry this year.* Recall that Nigeria joined 82 other countries contesting the ‘Foreign Language’ diadem, now called ‘International Feature Film’ category, after an approval and subsequent inauguration of the NOSC in February 2014. However, Nollywood could not present any film for the Oscars as the few submissions did not meet basic criteria.