If you are a lover of heritage and culture, there is an event you need to follow. It is a unique and rare event because of its significance in Yoruba heritage in the South West of Nigeria. It is the conferment of the Odole Oodua chieftaincy title to an illustrious Yoruba son.  Well, the title is not an easy one; it is a special office, which works closely with the Ooni of Ife in rallying the descendants of Oduduwa wherever they are in the world for unity, peace and progress of the race. To attest to how significant the title is, it was once occupied by the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo and subsequently by Chief G.O.K Ajayi. Having been vacant for some years now, it is time to fill the position as Adeyeye Ogunwusi, the Ooni of Ife has found a worthy son to occupy it now. The worthy son is no other person than Sir Keshington Adebutu, founder and chairman of Premier Lotto Limited (PLL) also known as Baba Ijebu. Having found Adebutu worthy of the title, the Ooni of Ife will on October 19, 2019, at the Ile-Oodua, the Ooni’s palace, at Ile-Ife, confer the Odole Oodua title on Adebutu, who is popularly known as Baba Ijebu, as well as, Dodondawa. The event will be the first of such conferments by Oba Ogunwusi since ascending the throne as the 51st Ooni of Ife in the third dynasty of Ife about four years ago. However, Adebutu, the gaming magnate, expressed his joy over such honour. But he hinted that he may not accept any other traditional title after his coronation as the Odole Oodua by the Ooni. The soon-to-be Odole Oodua expressed the view during a media interactive session in Ikoyi, Lagos, which was attended by some members of the planning committee for the title installation, including; Aare Kola Oyefeso, who is also the Ooni’s cultural ambassador, Morounrati Asabi, and Moses Olafare, Ooni’s director of media and public affairs. According to the businesses mogul, the importance of the exalted Odole Oodua title is beyond taking another chieftaincy title in order of things in Yoruba land. The excited Adebutu said he was prepared for his new traditional title, saying the importance of it transcends other chieftaincy tittles. “I know the importance of the new title and will not take any other chieftaincy title after my coronation as Odole Oodua”, he said. For the business mogul, who will clock 84 years on October 24, 2019, the revered title would strengthen his crusade for a united Yoruba race, amid his cordial relationship with Yoruba monarchs.  “I am humble to say that a lot of the Kabiyesis are my friends. If you notice any of my occasions, all the Kabiyesis are always present. Before I was announced as the recipient of this sacred position, which had only been occupied by Oranmiyan, Awolowo and GOK Ajayi, I have been taking steps to ensure there is unity among the Yoruba monarchs not even knowing I was being watched. “For instance, when the issue of our son happened, (Vice President Yemi Osibanjo), I have to call the Ooni of Ife, Alake, Akarigbo among others and they all swung to actions in their different capacities. “In Lagos, I am the Asoju Oba and mind you, I am not a Lagosian. So, that is to explain to you that if there is no good rapport between me and the Oba of Lagos, I cannot be conferred the title of Asoju Oba in Lagos. So, all these are signs that I have good rapport with the Yoruba monarchs.” Adebutu said. But why is the title so significant in Yoruba land? The Odole Oodua, a position once occupied by the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo and subsequently by Chief G.O.K Ajayi, is a highly revered chieftaincy title in Yorubaland pioneered by the great Oranmiyan while he was still a Prince of Ife. Oranmiyan served as a rallying point and stabilizing force among the powerful empires within the expansive Oduduwa territory before becoming the Ooni in Ife after his exploits, which cut across Benin and Oyo kingdoms where he established his royal dynasties, which have been in existence till date. Historically, the office has its roots in the remarkable roles played by Oranmiyan, the great ruler of old Oyo and Benin kingdoms. Oranmiyan was virile, bold, adventurous, circumspect, dutiful and at the service of his other siblings. He stood as an effective link between them. It was his commitment to a united Oduduwa family that is referenced in the fragment of his panegyric “akantunkansi or as’otuns’osi, akinn’ile akinl’ogun” (the great link to both sides, the brave both at home and at war). Even though both Benin and Oyo kingdoms were at a point most powerful domains within the expansive Oduduwa territory, Oranmiyan ensured that they never overran each other. Etymologically, “Odole” is derived from the expression “odo ile Oodua” (the youth in the house of Oduduwa). It is a contraction of the expression adopted as a title to perpetuate the ideal of internal cohesion for which Oranmiyan stood in the Oodua family of the ancient days. The traditional title of the Odole of Ife has been retained as part of Ife’s social and political system and specially conferred on distinguished Oodua descendants who in present times can replicate the roles played by Oranmiyan. In the contemporary history of the Oodua people, the late sage, Chief Jeremiah Obafemi Awolowo, who later held the title of Asiwaju Ile-Oodua, which has since been left unfilled till date, was the first to be honoured with the title after Oranmiyan. The second holder of the title was the late Chief G.O.K. Ajayi (SAN) who was once the Attorney General of the Western Region while Sir Adebutu Adebukunola Kensington is the third in the line. Like his predecessor, Sir Adebutu’s exemplary life achievements and awesome potentials for positive social transformation were a crucial factor in his consideration for the prestigious position. From a very humble background to a life of a successful businessman of national and international repute, a philanthropist of rare breed and a social reformer of distinction, Sir Adebutu emerged as the most suitable candidate for the position. He hails from Iperu Remo in Ikene Local Government Area of Ogun State, Nigeria. The choice of Adebutu as the Odole Oodua is also in recognition of his philanthropy, positive contributions to human development, and promotion of our prestigious cultural values and traditions as descendants of Oduduwa. The Kensington Adebukunola Adebutu Foundation (KAAF) and the Medical Laboratory and Maternity Centre established in 2005 among other commitments to the service of the poor and other vulnerable people in the society attest to this. In line with the established process of filling such an important position, both the political and spiritual wings of Ile-Oodua have sought Sir Adebutu’s consent in this regard on behalf of the Ooni and he has presented his acceptance of the offer to the Arole Oodua’Olofin Adimula, the Ooni of Ife for final ratification. All the necessary rites attached to the installation are being observed ahead of the installation ceremony slated soon. The kings, the high chiefs (Agbia Ife) and chief priests (The Isoros) are atop of the coronation rites, which will reach the climax on the eve of the event in October 19, 2019.