The stress customers undergo to get their identities registered online by financial institutions may soon be reduced as Union Systems said it has partnered Daon, a global biometric identity technology firm, to remove any form of friction. Data capturing and harmonization is said to be an important phase of delivering the digital economy, but this reality has since eluded Nigeria because data belonging to citizens are housed in different places in various institutions. While this creates a number of issues for the customer, it ultimately leaves important information vulnerable and at the mercy of internet criminals. The partnership between Union Systems and Daon allows the former which provides financial software solutions and professional services to major banks in Africa to leverage the Identity X in removing the friction from the authentication and onboarding processes. Identity X is a universal mobile biometric authentication platform that verifies a person is who they claim to be using biometrics such as their face, voice, and fingerprint. IdentityX clients can customize the platform to meet their own needs. Most notably, that means that they can automatically screen new accounts based on predetermined criteria, or trigger a manual human review in fringe cases. “Working collaboratively with Union Systems Limited, we will make our leading identity technology available to an ever-growing wave of African innovators, particularly those in financial services who want to reach more customers and differentiate themselves with a secure and seamless experience,” Tom Grissen, CEO, Daon said. The IdentityX platform is particularly popular in the financial sector, with Daon providing solutions for a roster of partners that includes companies like Innovation Finance and banks like Turkey’s Akbank. IdentityX is also certified by the FIDO (Fast Identity Online) Alliance for both FIDO 1.1 (UAF) and FIDO2 protocols. “This partnership with Daon puts us at the forefront of the efforts by the regulatory authorities to combat financial crimes,” Chuks Onyebuchi, CEO, Union Systems said. “Daon’s technology is cutting-edge and will redefine authentication and digital onboarding as we know it.”
Union Systems brings to the partnership over 20 years’ experience implementing and supporting various global financial software applications around Africa.