In furtherance of its quest to always please and excite its customers, 4G LTE pioneer service provider in West Africa, Smile Nigeria, has launched a campaign that is designed to give brand new SMIFI and Router devices to its loyal customers. This latest offer is targeted at customers who have spent a minimum of 12 months on the Smile network. Lotanna Anajemba, head of brands and communication, Smile Nigeria, said that customers who have spent a minimum duration of 12 months and have good data usage history are welcome to bring their old SMiFi or Router devices in exchange for a new device. Anajemba further explained that eligible customers can only benefit from this offer once a year and would have to update their Know Your Customer (KYC) record with Smile to enable them get notification for the offer. The lucky customers will be contacted via SMS and email and requested to visit the nearest Smile shop or kiosk nationwide to claim their new device. A vital aspect of this loyalty program is that it offers the customer a router or SMiFi device at no extra cost. However, customers will have to trade in their old device for the new one. The Campaign primarily rewards unflinching loyalty. The offer is available in all the major Nigerian cities in which Smile operates. “We recognize that the internet is becoming more and more important for nearly everybody in their everyday lives, and as such, it is our goal to enable as many people as possible to enjoy the best customer experience on the Smile network,” Anajemba said. Industry watchers believe that the offer is part of Smile Nigeria’s objective to extend internet access to most Nigerians by delighting current customers and attracting new prospects alike. Smile’s effort to get Nigerians on to the internet is demonstrated by its aggressive investment in 4G LTE network in Nigeria, introduction of a wide and affordable bundle portfolio, available data enabled devices and exciting offers such as this. This latest offer seems to align with the company’s commitment to create a differentiated value proposition and provide customer centric services, which are aimed at adding unrivalled benefits to its teeming customers spread across major cities and towns in the country.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson