 The Federal Government has expressed dissatisfaction with the high cost of data in the country, saying the situation was unacceptable. Accordingly, the Minister of Communications, Isa Pantami, has directed the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to liaise with telecom operators, with a view to ensuring a downward review of the price of data in the country. This was as the minister further insisted on seeing an end to illegal deductions of subscribers ‘yahoo’ data, in the face of improved service delivery. The disclosure was made in a statement, by the Personal Assistant to the minister on communications, Yusuf Abubakar. The statement quoted Pantami as regretting that Nigeria was not one of the ten African countries with low average price of data, according to a report by the UK-based price comparison website, Cable. “According to the report from UK-based price comparison website — Cable, Nigeria is not among the top 10 African countries with low average price of data, a position the Honourable Minister of Communications, Federal Republic of Nigeria, Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami finds worrisome considering the fact that the country has over 174 Million internet users according to the report made public by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). “Similarly, the Minister also finds it unacceptable that with the prevailing high cost of data in Nigeria, the citizens still do not enjoy value for money as subscribers’ battle daily with illegal deduction of data, poor Quality of Service (QoS) among others”, Abubakar said. He noted that: “It is on this backdrop that the Honourable Minister directed NCC, the telecom regulators as a matter of urgency to immediately work hand in hand with the telecom operators and ensure they are a downward review of the price of data in Nigeria, improved quality of service provided and also checkmate the illegal deduction of subscribers’ data. “The Communications Minister gave this marching orders shortly after being briefed by the commission on the progress made in the implementation of the Short-Term Performance targets set for it to achieve”. It will be recalled that early last month, the Minister had directed the commission to, among other things, bring to an end the issue of sales of pre-registered, unregistered and partially-registered SIM cards, as well as stem the tide of illegal deduction of the data of subscribers and work towards the downward review of the cost of data. The move was in line with President Muhammadu Buhari “s directives to ensure that all agencies under the supervision of a ministry are effective, efficient and accountable in the discharge of their responsibilities. Pantami had also reminded NCC that as a regulator, their major priority should be protecting the interest of Nigerians and urged them to uphold professionalism and diligence in the discharge of their official responsibilities. The commission also tabled challenges of the operators which includes vandalism of telecom infrastructures, inadequate power supply, right of way, hooliganism, multiple taxations among others and used the opportunity to call for the swift intervention of the Minister to address the issues. In a related development, the Pantami directed Galaxy Backbone a government-owned Information Technology service provider to think out of the box, leverage on the advantage it has as a government-funded entity to deliver effective and efficient services to Nigerians, and in turn attract more revenue for the government. The Minister further urged Galaxy to work hand in hand with the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) to expand its reach and take advantage of NITDA’s regulatory authority. Meanwhile, the NCC has carried out a partial disconnection of Glomobile from Airtel Networks Limited (Airtel). A statement signed by NCC’s Director of Public Affairs, Henry Nkemadu, said the decision followed non-settlement of interconnect charges. Nkemadu added that the decision was made pursuant to the NCC Act 2003. “Pursuant to the Nigeria Communications Act 2003 and the Guidelines for Procedure for Granting Approval to disconnect Telecommunications Operators The Nigerian Communications Commission hereby notifies the general public and subscribers of Glomobile Limited (Glomobile) that approval has been granted for the partial disconnection of Glomobile from Airtel Networks Limited (Airtel) as a result of non-settlement of interconnect charges”, the statement said. It went further to explain that: “Glomobile was notified of the application and was given opportunity to comment and state its case. The commission, having examined the application and circumstances surrounding the indebtedness determined that the affected operator does not have sufficient reason for non-payment of interconnect charges. “All subscribers are therefore requested to take notice that the Commission has approved the Partial Disconnection of Glomobile by Airtel in accordance with Section 100 of the Nigerian Communications Act 2003 and the Guidelines on Procedure for Granting Approval to Disconnect Telecommunications Operators. “At the expiration of 10 days from the date of this notice, subscribers on the network of Glomobile will no longer be able to make calls to Airtel but will be able to receive calls” It noted that the partial disconnection, however, will allow in-bound calls to the Glomobile network.  