Samsung has just unveiled new members of the Galaxy A Series smartphones; the Galaxy A10s, A20s and A30s, yesterday at it’s head office, ikoyi Lagos. According to David Suh, managing director, Samsung Electronics, West Africa, these new devices offer upgrades to essential features, made even more powerful with more value for the new smartphones generation. David Suh said, “As a global technology leader, we are committed to providing meaningful innovations to our consumers. Galaxy A10s, A20s and A30s have been developed for young Africans who are looking for a great display, superior camera, long-lasting battery and fingerprint scanner. Its a complete package of great looks and top performance.” He further said that the Galaxy A10s impressive device offers unprecedented value. “The new Galaxy A10s comes with a stunning 6.2-inch, HD+ Infinity-V Display. It provides an immersive visual experience to users binge-watching your favourite content. Additionally, addressing the need of todays generation, the Galaxy A10s is equipped with a powerful 4,000mAh battery that allows uninterrupted streaming, gaming and live broadcasting.” The Galaxy A10s comes with a dual rear camera setup to address the millennials need to capture moments on the go. “The dual camera of the Galaxy A10s comprises a 13MP primary rear camera with F1.8 aperture and a 2MP depth camera. This allows users to capture beautiful shots where the focus is on the subject and noise from the background is blurred. While introducing the Galaxy A20, Suh said that due to increase in the number of people using their smartphones to share live interactions, those capturing spontaneous photos, streaming live videos and connecting over shared experiences, Galaxy A20s is Built to drive this evolution, and is packed with a compelling user experience for everyday lives. Adetunji Taiwo, head, Information Technology and Mobile (IM) at Samsung Electronics West Africa, while introducing the Galaxy A30s said that the A30s has upgraded essential features, made even more powerful. “The new Galaxy A30s features striking new designs, including a unique geometric pattern and futuristic holographic effect on the back. Available in three new colours, Prism Crush Black, Prism Crush White, and Prism Crush Violet, the sleek Galaxy A30s showcases a stylish look and feel. Paired with a long-lasting 4,000mAh battery with fast charging capability and an AI-based Game Booster, the Galaxy A30s offers the best gaming experiences on-the-go with no worry about power,” he said. Features an on-screen fingerprint scanner for an easier and more intuitive way of keeping users’ content safe without compromising design. With the Galaxy A30s, you will be seamlessly connected to the Galaxy ecosystem and able to enjoy a full range of services, including Samsung Health, Knox and more.” Adetunji propounded. Smartphones are a vital part of peoples lives, connecting them, allowing them to share their experiences and engage with the world. As the way people use smartphones continues to evolve, Samsung says it strives to constantly innovate, bringing people the best possible mobile experience. “The new Galaxy A10s, A20s, and A30s are a bold step in delivering next-level performance to essential everyday features,” the company said. Samsung Galaxy A10s and A30s are now available whilst the Galaxy A20s will be in Samsung partner stores nationwide from Monday, 28th October, 2019.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson