The Interior Designers Association of Nigeria (IDAN) announces the details of the 2019 GUIDE event. The two day conference and networking event is scheduled to take place at the Wings Complex, Victoria Island, Lagos, from the 17th to the 18th of October 2019. The annual exhibition was established to be the foremost Interior Design and lifestyle platform in Nigeria. Now in its 5th year, GUIDE for Business has broadened the spectrum of its audience. This edition, themed ‘Freedom to Design’, is set to provide creative professionals and entrepreneurs with business and career development tools from a range of industry leaders. Delivering information in areas such as finance, taxation, human resources, business development, project management, insurance , health and wellness to name a few. The event also provides a platform for established and aspiring design professions to network with other service providers. “IDAN is delighted to introduce GUIDE for Business, a reformed segment of our annual GUIDE Exhibition. The theme of this year’s GUIDE gives us a unique opportunity to take a vibrant and enticing look at the business side of design practice, dissect the concept of ‘freedom’ in the design profession, and allow designers to share their voice and learn from a broad spectrum of speakers in the Nigerian business landscape. We are looking forward to engaging, informative and entertaining sessions on both days and we hope this new initiative will help our profession to understand and elevate its role in shaping our economy,” said Omon Anenih – Mordi, President of IDAN. An impressive line-up of multidisciplinary speakers will approach the theme from varying business perspectives. Covering both creativity and profitability, debunking the myth that business sense and creative talent are mutually exclusive. Speakers will use their wealth of experience to shed light on relatable business tools during a series of interwoven sessions, talks and panel discussions. IDAN remains the highest authority and voice for the Interior Design profession in Nigeria; Promoting, advancing, advocating, establishing superior levels of excellence and building a consensus and community for Interior Design in Nigeria. For more information on the upcoming GUIDE Exhibition and how to secure your spot please visit theguide.ng TEMITAYO AYETOTO 