 The State Commissioner for Agriculture and Natural Resources, Julius Egbedi, unveiled the World Bank sponsored project at Ukala OKpuno in Oshimili North Local Government Area of the state. He said that the project was a subproject of the State for Employment and Expenditure for Result (SEEFOR) and Fadama III in Ukala Fadama Community Association (FCA), World Bank counterpart sponsored project. Egbedi said the project, which is a cluster of 10 Green Houses for vegetable farming by Fadama Users Group (FUG) was the first of its kind in the state. “The Project is a novel one which will revolutionise agriculture in the state because the use of greenhouses is an approach to agricultural production that will expose the farmers to global best practices. It is expected to boost productivity, improve livelihood, incomes of beneficiaries, food sufficiency and jobs creation drive of the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa led administration,” he said. He thanked the donor agencies and charge the people of the community to protect the project through peaceful coexistence. Also, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Austin Oghoro, disclosed that the project cost a total of N35 million to execute, adding that the greenhouses were expected to support the production of vegetables which that the first cycle started with pepper production. “A total sum of N35 million was expended on the subproject for the provision of the greenhouses kits comprising of assets and inputs, capacity building, 20KVA power generating set, borehole and accessories,” he said. Oghoro thanked the SEEFOR and Fadama, noting that the achievement was made possible because the state government paid the counterpart funds to attract the project. “With this project, agricultural development, food security and increased incomes of our rural farmers in line with the development focus of the state will no doubt be achieved in due course,” he said. The Council Chairman, Louis Ndukwe and other community leaders in their various remarks thanked the World Bank and the state government for attracting such projects to the rural community to boost agriculture and create jobs and incomes for the rural farmers. Responding on behalf of beneficiaries and the FUG, Anthony Ejiofor, thanked the state governor, SEEFOR and Fadama for the gesture while pledging their commitment to growing the project in the nearest future. He, however, appealed to the government to create a motorable road to the farm and security to ensure that the project was not vandalized. “I want to assure you that we will replicate the 10 greenhouses in the shortest time,” he said. 