The National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole has dissociated himself from the 2023 presidential race. Oshiomhole stated this while reacting to posters circulating on social media platforms with him and Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai as presidential and vice presidential candidates of APC in 2023. He said this was the handiwork of members of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who think that they can create suspicion within the ranks of APC. The APC National Chairman said he does not only deny those posters as they affect him but to deny them as they affect any leader of his party because it is not yet time. He stated that even people who may have ambitions are aware that this is not the time, hence at this point, all hands must be on deck to support President Muhammadu Buhari and all APC state Governors in their respective states to work together to deliver deliverables for the good of Nigerians. Oshiomhole emphasized that this is not the time to talk politics as politics cannot be an all round season, and the season for politics is over, more so that the judiciary is also clearing the Governorship, the National Assembly and even the Presidential elections. “This is not the time for electioneering. We cannot have electioneering for four years and thereafter, you have people elected and continue for another four years. There is time for politicking, there is time for governance, this is the time for governance. “All of us in the APC we are committed to backing the President to deliver for the Nigerian people, we will not distract him”, he noted. The former Edo State Governor stated that part of the decision at meetings PDP in Dubai was to come back home and begin to throw bag of lies and untruth with a view to creating distraction and even creating disharmony within the governance of Nigeria. “For example, I was shocked that PDP has abandoned the old age tradition that you do not drag judiciary into the murky waters of politics. I saw PDP and their agent called CUPP, in a press conference claiming that because new judges are about to be appointed that they are just being appointed because of the tribunal dispute. “Now the question is, should the Supreme Court be denied the appointment of all the judges they need, should we say because election matters are in tribunal, Supreme Court Judges should not be appointed. “And I saw CUPP working for PDP claiming and lecturing us as a people who the Chief Judge of the Federation ought to be. They lectured us on who is supposed to be there and who is not supposed to be there. “That means they are already in their old traditional way seeking to infiltrate, and to dictate and blackmail the judiciary into a particular form of panel of judges”, Oshiomhole explained. On allegations that APC is manipulating Elections Petitions Tribunal, he said, “as far as we are concerned, APC has no business dertermining for the Chief Justice of the Federation who should be a member of the presidential election tribunal “We are confident, we have the best collection of legal brains in the country to make the case of our President and our party before the Tribunal at the Appeal Court level and judgement is very clear. “PDP petition was simply resting on the handiwork what we might call yahoo-yahoo boys. When they brought the young man from Kenya who emitted that he’s not certified in any ICT field and that he got his information from a server owned by the so called factsdontlies.com. The server is not INEC’s server, he was in Kenya when elections were being held to hack into a system that does not exist”.  James Kwen, Abuja