An organisation called CoinCola is empowering Nigerians with a crypto tour set to teach citizens residing in major cities how to better understand the blockchain and cryptocurrency world.
The CoinCola Crypto Tour will host Abuja and Kaduna on the best practices of the cryptocurrency education as efforts to eradicate the mysticism that has shrouded the business making it understandable to the layman. The expository work-shop will run in Abuja on 22nd October 2019 at the NAF Conference Centre, Ahmadu Bello Way, Gwarimpa Expressway, Kado by 1 pm. It will also hold in Kaduna on the  24th of October 2019 at the Divino Event Centre on Gongola Road Barnawa, Kaduna.
Ivan Chen, the Business Development Manager of CoinCola,  in a press release issued on Wednesday assured Nigerians that the conference would provide a plain learning field for the inquisitive, traders, academics, students, workers and business owners. He said: “This training is for them to learn and discuss the exciting future of crypto and blockchain generally,” describing it as one of the skills everyone needs to understand in a world gradually moving towards decentralisation.
According to him, with their line-up of resourceful and insightful industry leaders availing themselves as speakers at the event, it would sure be a best-experience than a narrated event.  Tola Joseph, the founder of Crypto Masterclass; the CEO of Donline Trade Harvest, IB Macdonald; and Anonyuo Chigozie, the CEO of Geodivita e-consulting,  alongside Ivan and Aby representing CoinCola.
On what informed the drive for the occasion, Ivan expressed that the current need for individual development and creating alternative sources of income in Nigeria makes it apt. Read also; Experts want Nigeria to adopt blockchain to solve its energy crises His words: “The future of blockchain and crypto will be discussed at the conference but not without showing you how this ties into other business and our everyday lives.”
He boldly stated that participants would be shown how to trade cryptocurrencies and the nitty-gritty on ways to incorporate cryptocurrency as a medium of exchange and investment. For the organisation, the conference tagged, ‘Coincola Crypto Tour 2019’ focuses on eradicating the mystique and misinformation that has shrouded the cryptocurrency sector for some years.
The Business Manager also stated that this tour, which cuts across major Nigerian states, would explain why investments in cryptocurrency are best on growing your asset for everyone; educate the populace on how trading Cryptocurrencies work using the CoinCola Exchange. The empowerment programme also targets a young audience who have some trading experience with gift cards, knowledge of Bitcoin and trading environment know-how.
The programme is designed to create value for participants and teach them how to utilise the CoinCola education platform for their crypto trading benefit and build partnerships with trading coaches who will become ‘tutoring influencers’ using the CoinCola platform.