Nigeria and the entire West Africa appears not to be attractive on the hospitality radar of Hyatt Hotels Corporation’s affiliate as its affiliate is entering into a management agreement with seven hotel developers in Africa which is to be opened in the coming three years. The Seven Hotel of Hyatt Regency which is in the pipe line would bring the total number of Hyatt-branded hotels to 15 by 2021. Currently, there are eight Hyatt regency Hotels which are operational in Egypt, Morocco, Tanzania, South Africa, Algeria, Kenya, Ethiopia and Mozambique. “Hyatt has been focused on growing its brand presence in the Africa, with gate way cities and tourist destinations being one of the most important development strategies, said Tejas Shah, regional vice president of development of sub-Saharan Africa, Hyatt. As Hyatt Regency this is a milestone in expanding the existence in the African market, Hyatt increasingly is gaining popularity with leisure travelers. “We are proud to be working with Hyatt again to introduce its brands to the global city of Manchester,” said Tejas Shah, regional vice president of development sub shahran Africa, Hyatt. Tourism in Africa is projected to increase and drive job opportunities for over 3.5 million people in the next 10 years, as the number of tourists expected to grow by 4.4 percent in the coming 15 years. “Africa, and particularly East Africa, remains a focus for Hyatt with an increasingly favorable business climate and heightened tourism spend, encouraged by relaxed ambience settings,” Shah adds. Dakar-Senegal, Marrakesh-Morocco and Cairo- Egypt are among the new destinations where the Chicago-headquartered Hyatt’s opens its door until 2021. According to the UNWTO Tourism 2018 Edition, international tourist arrivals in sub-Saharan Africa have grown by 5.8 percent from 2005 to 2017, which is well above the global average of 4.2 percent. Furthermore, the continent saw a sustained growth of 8.6 percent in international tourist arrivals last year visa rules, travel incentives, and a growing middle class. “The opening up of more Hyatt in Africa can make to serve our esteemed customers to provide the highest level of service beside the direct and indirect jobs created by this hospitality industry”, the Vice President stated.  