Governor Yayaha Bello of Kogi State, has affirmed that 55 percent of women that cast their ballots for President Muhammadu Buhari during the 2019 general elections were influenced by the Federal Capital Territory, FCT Minister of State, Ramatu -Tijjani Aliyu. Bello described the Minister as a bridge builder and skillful mobilizer that deserves honour both at home and national level, adding that her ministerial appointment was not a surprise to many supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The governor made this assertion during the grand reception organised by the First Lady of Kogi State, Rashida Bello, in honour of the FCT Minister of State at the weekend in Lokoja. Bello who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Shade Ayoade, maintained that the Minister has strengthened the place of women in the party’s dynamics and used it as a platform to effectively market the party’s programmes as it relates to women empowerment and development. He also applauded the poverty alleviation programmes initiated by the Minister in rural communities, noting that she used her platform to strengthen marginalized communities by placing emphasis on poverty alleviation programmes that would reduce poverty. “A woman of relentless vigour, she initiated a grassroot women mobilization machinery with a penetrating door-to-door campaign in private homes in the six-geo political zones of the country as a strategic effort to market unique selling points of the APC presidential flag bearer and his running mate. “To complement the gains of her insight, Hajiya Ramatu mounted a vigorous outreach programme with market women right inside their respective stalls and trade posts in virtually all the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory, FCT. “An avowed crusader, she visited homes of notable leaders of various ethnic tribal associations in strategic parts of the country from Sokoto through Ile-Ife to Uyo, extolling the virtues of Gen. Buhari’s antecedents as a bridge builder with consummate passion for a new Nigeria of equal opportunity for all, especially the women. “It is therefore not surprising that over 55% of the electorate, who elected Gen. Muhammadu Buhari as president, we’re women. A most telling endorsement of her tireless efforts in the emergence of Nigeria’s 4th elected president,” Bello stressed. In her response, Aliyu thanked the government and people of the state for the warm reception accorded her, just as she promised to be a crusader by serving the people of Kogi as their servant. According to her, “today is indeed a very memorable day I will never forget in a hurry. Perhaps not in my entire life because I got celebrated by those who matter to me most. Those that have seen me grow and seen me through my political struggles. “I have nothing to say than to say thank you to them especially our mother, the wife of Kogi State Governor who put this night together.”  James Kwen, Abuja