When a Nigerian visits any of these African countries listed below, all they need to show is their valid Nigerian Passport to the immigration officers at the border or airport entry point.  Ghana is a country located along the Gulf of Guinea and Atlantic Ocean in the sub-region of West Africa vying for the title of “Closest to the Equator” and so you aren’t likely to find a climate more tropical than this. One thing compared to Ghana again is the season which is usually two and these are the wet and dry. It’s аlѕо рrеttу hot, rеасhing about 30°C or 86°F on most daуѕ. Thе соuntrу is about еԛuаl parts ѕаndу desert, ѕhrubbу savannah, аnd lush rаinfоrеѕt. The аrеа along thе соаѕt is drу, but thе ubiԛuitоuѕ hеаt is tempered by сооl breezes blowing in from the Atlantic Ocean.  Cameroon is a country located in West Africa also sharing its borders with Nigeria to the west, Chad to the northeast, the Central African Republic to the east and Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, and the Republic of the Congo to the south. To enter the country you will need a passport, a visa, and proof of vaccination against yellow fever. Make sure your passport is valid for at least six months past the date of your arrival to be allowed into the country. One more thing about Cameroon is, when it comes to violent crimes, Cameroon is relatively safe, as violence is mostly rare, though you should think twice about wearing valuables outside because of the big guys on the streets to avoid violence and harassment.  As said earlier, we would be picking five African countries for Nigerian passport holder and Gambia is another country to be considered. Gambia is a country located in West Africa and at the same time, it is the smallest country on the continent of Africa which has a short North Atlantic Ocean coastline in the west and is surrounded by Senegal so that it is almost an enclave. Considering the Gambia as a country to visit, travelling throughout the country Gambia is trouble-free. However, like anywhere else, travellers should use their common sense, apply the basic precaution measures, and be vigilant of any potential threats to their safety and security. The British nationals are given a 28-days stamp in their passports upon arrival. It is possible, however, to get further 28-day extensions from the Immigration Office.  Togo is a small country in the west of Africa that is fast becoming a more appealing prospect for expats. Togo acts as a regional commercial and trade centre for the West Africa region and economic reform measures have helped to attract more foreign investment as well as expats planning a life in Togo. When visiting a new country, like other West African countries, Togo can be a violent, unstable place for locals and tourists so you should know your way of providing yourself safety when visiting the country.   Benin Republic is also a country located in West Africa which shares its borders with Togo to the west, Nigeria to the east and Burkina Faso and Niger to the north. Many Nigerians considered this country one of the best to visit considering the distance. Even though Benin is considered a peaceful country, known for it’s kind, warm and welcoming people, petty thefts and violent crimes like muggings and robberies are likely to occur everywhere, no matter how peaceful the area so remain vigilant anywhere. Above all, Travelstart offers cheap flight tickets to most of these African countries and every other countries outside Africa. Save thousands of Naira with their discounted flight fares and enjoy a budget-friendly holiday in these African countries.