The Maltavator Challenge games is set to thrill entertainment lovers across Africa as the Season 2 of the Malta Guinness television show commenced with a private media screening recently in Lagos. In the Season 2 edition, Malta Guinness is bringing contestants from five different countries of Africa including; Nigeria, Ghana, Cameroon, Cote D’ivoire and Ethiopia to contest for $ USD 20,000. However, there will be consolation prizes for all contestants of the games show. In the 2019 edition, the Pan African television show will further provide platform for Malta Guinness to showcase itself in terms of the brand purpose to fuel the true spirit and greatness of Africans and Nigerians in particular. Read Also: Uber is building a small loans platform for drivers The first edition was hosted by Ethiopia. But Nigeria will be host for this year’s eight-week-long episode series of season 2. Audition for the season 2 took place in five major cities of the country including Lagos, Abuja, Ibadan, Enugu and Benin, where young people came out in thousands to compete for the $USD 10,000 prize. In each city, four finalists were chosen at the end of the screening for the grand finale in Lagos, where 20 of them will slog it out for last six positions to represent Nigeria at the competition. Speaking during the media screening, which held at Silverbird Cinema, Ikeja Mall, Lagos, Ifeoma Agu, senior brand manager, Premium Non Alcoholic Malta Guinness, Guinness Nig. Plc, said the essence of the Maltavator Challenge is to bring together the spirit of oneness of Africans. She described a Maltavator as a person who is willing to face challenges of the competition with optimism and determination to win. Agu explained that criteria for assessing the participating Maltavators are both physical and mental agility as Malta Guinness provides the required physical and mental energy the contestants need to perform their tasks in any competition. The brand manager, said the programme would be sustained annually having successfully done the season one. “This is a sustainable platform that we are looking to promote. This show has come to stay after we have successfully done season one”. For her, the show is not necessarily about young people, buy also captures people who are young at heart. She described Malta Guinness as the most premium African Malt that gives young Africans competing spirit, determination, doggedness and sportsmanship. The Season 2 episode games series is shown live on four broadcast television including: Nigeria Television Authority, Channels Television, Silverbird Television and MTV.