TECNO Mobile, in partnership with African Artists’ Foundation and National Geographic Magazine have unveiled the lucky winners of the #Unlockcamission Camp competition, who will be going on an all-expense paid trip to Europe. Barineka Maagbo emerged the highest scorer of all selected winners who won themselves a trip to Europe with a cumulative of 210.5 points, closely behind him was Arowolo Fatai who came second with a cumulative of 205.5 at the end of five tasks throughout the camping period. Speaking at the event, Attai Oguche, the deputy marketing manager, Tecno Nigeria, said; At TECNO, we are excited to have started such initiative in Nigeria, in line with our Camera-centric flagship line, the Camon Series. Having just launched the Camon 12 Series, there is no better way to put the camera quality to test than to send mobile photography lovers whom we refer to as “Unlockers” on a mission to unlock the limitless camera possibilities of this device. Read also: Smartphone review: Tecno Camon 12 series and its exquisite camera functions Also, at the event, Azu Nwagbogu, director African Artists’ Foundation could not contain his excitement over the partnership, saying that “it has been a fun journey for us at the African Artists’ Foundation, having been part of this activity from the selection of the Unlockers to the unveiling of the winner today, especially because these the things we are passionate about at AAF. We cannot overemphasize the fact that TECNO has through this medium, increased conversations around the participation of budding talents in the widely growing world of mobile photography. The brand did not just create an amazing device, but also gave a platform for talents to express their skills. This is a commendable project and We hope to do this again soon.” 24 participants called “the Unlockers” were selected from a long list of entries submitted for the Camission competition, and over the course of five days with five challenging tasks. They actively contested for the grand prize from the fourth to the eighth of October 2019 – using the camera of the Camon 12 Pro to capture wide-angle, low-light, Macro and Micro pictures. Renowned international photo-journalist,michael Christopher Brown was presented at the Camp to guide the Unlockers and avail them of mentorship tips. “I was particularly interested in this camping process because I would get to meet young talents and I was not disappointed by the outputs of the Unlockers. I cannot thank Tecno enough for giving these voices a chance to express themselves. In my days in the country, I have concluded that I would be back for more. Nigeria is a beautiful place to be,” he said.