Once again, the West African travel and tourism community gathered in Accra, the Ghanaian capital city, for the 6th edition of the annual African Travel Times award. This year’s edition was the third in a roll to be hosted in Ghana, as well as, the most colorful because of the royal presence of a revered paramount ruler in Ghana. The presence of Odeneho Kwafo Akoto III, Akwamumanhene of Akwamu Kingdom, was well felt. The paramount ruler, who left his Bogyawe Royal Palace in Akwamu to grace the occasion, truly deserved to be the ‘father of the day’ at the award. From the entrance of Movenpick Ambassador Hotel, Accra, venue of the event, the high profile guests at the hotel witnessed the glamour of African royalty first hand. From the colourful royal dressing, awesome procession to the intentional guarding of the kind from public view, the entourage was worth seeing. Of course, all guests at the award night awaited the entry of the king, whose presence and blessings are needed for the event to kick off. As expected, the well-trained palace guards led the way, while the very gifted flutist, drummers and praise singers uniquely announced the entry of the king with melodious sounds and gestures. The ovation was overwhelming for the king who appreciated it and signaled to the organisers to move on with the event.  The organisers went on with the event, but eyes were still glued on the king and his huge entourage of over 15 traditionally costumed subjects. Moments later, Herbert Acquaye, former president, Ghana Hotels Association and the chairman of the occasion, formally rolled out programmes of the event and noted that the Ghanaian hospitality sector always look forward to the award because of the healthy rival, which has also helped stakeholders to improve on service and facility delivery over the years. As well, in his opening remarks, Lucky George, publisher, African Travel Times Magazine, the organiser of the award, highlighted how the award, which was initiated six years ago, has blossomed into a veritable platform for networking, healthy rivalry among industry players and encouraging world best practice in the West African region. He noted further that six years down the line, the award has maintained its core objective, which is to recognise ‘excellence’ in the travel and tourism sector in the West African region and beyond. George commended the Ghanaian government, the people and stakeholder in the travel and tourism industry for the immense support so far given to the African Travel Times Award, which he doubted he could get in Nigeria, his home country. He particularly appreciated Acquaye, the chairman of the occasion, for his support, which helped in the berthing of the award in Ghana. He also used the opportunity to throw light on trends in tourism, and calling on Ghana to expand its tourism offerings beyond the usual slave castles and harbors as tourists are continuously looking for new attractions while on a trip. Citing instance with the Nigerian more skilled tourism and travel reporting, he challenged Ghana travel media to retool and scale up their reports in a way to market the country and woo more visitors. But when Wasiu Babalola, vice president Africa, Continent Hotel, took over the stage for his keynote address, the venue was silent as guests were eager to learn from the wealth of knowledge and experience of the former Swiss Hotel managing director.  The hospitality expert with PhD in related field took the guests on a knowledge lane, explaining why regular upgrading in the hospitality industry is necessary for growth, catching up with trends and for results. The PhD holder, who is currently pursuing a law degree, charged youths to constantly develop themselves, and that they must first have passion for the hospitality to truly excel on their jobs. He insisted that easy jobs do not pay at the end, but career in hospitality requires extra effort and pains to enable them get fulfilled on their jobs and to laugh at last. Concerned over closing the skills gap in the hospitality sector, Jenny Adade, managing director, Ilearn Hospitality and Tourism Training Centre, offered guests at the awards, especially hotels opportunity to train and retrain their staff in her outfit, which she said is world class based on her many years of experience in the sector in abroad. However, while the royal father’s presence was a boost to the event, the paramount ruler also used the occasion to do real time marketing of tourism assets and attractions within his domain. From Royal Senchi Hotel, the Volta Akosombo Hotel, Afrikoko Resort, Dodi Princess, which offers sailing and boating facilities, the Akwamu Gorge Conservation and railway projects, and many others, the Odeneho Kwafo Akoto III, Akwamumanhene of Akwamu Kingdom, urged global tourists to visit and explore nature unlimited. The marketing prowess of the royal father amazed even the expert destination managers at the event as the paramount ruler truly proved himself as the custodian of his people’s culture. In the main highlight of the event, awards were presented to the winners in different categories. As expected, Ethiopian Airlines emerged Best Airline International for Africa; Kenya Airways won the “Most Supportive National Carrier” for tourism brand; Arik Air bagged the Most Recognizable Airline Brand in Nigeria; and Air Africa World Airlines emerged the Most Reliable/Best Connectivity Airline in West Africa. Movenpick Ambassador Hotel, the host, won two awards; the Best Five Star Hotel in Ghana and the Hospitality Brand of the Year. Royal Senchi Resort emerged Best Resort in West Africa; Tang Palace Hotel won Best Dining Experience Hotel of the Year in West Africa; Zaina Lodge emerged Best Safari Facility; and The Envoy Abuja won the Most Modern and Environmental Friendly Facility in West Africa. For its support, Akwa Ibom State won the Top Sport Tourism Destination in West Africa; Rivers State emerged the Most Supportive Government in Sustaining Tourism Facilities in Nigeria; Ghana Tourism Authority won the Most Active Tourism Agency in West Africa, South African Tourism emerged the Most Effective National Marketing Tourism Agency in Africa for the second year running while Ministry of Tourism, Arts & Culture of Ghana was the Most Active in West Africa. In another category, the National Council for Arts and Culture, Nigeria won the Most Active culture agency in West Africa; Gambia won the Most Visited Destination in West Africa; YOKS Rent A Car, Ghana emerged the Best in West Africa. Winners in the individual categories who were given recognition awards include; Bernard Bankole emerged the Most Active Association President, Seth Yeboah Ocran, CEO, YOKS Investments Limited, David Nana Anim, former president, Ghana Tourism Federation; Sajid Khan, Paul Kavanagh, Romam Krabel, general manager, Accra City Hotel, and Susan Akporiaye, Most Active Woman in Tourism, West Africa. At the end of the award, George commended all the winners for their efforts, urging them to improve on it and promised a more exciting award next year.  OBINNA EMELIKE