The Taraba State Chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Friday described as laughable the call for the impeachment of Governor Darius Ishaku. State Chairman of the party, Victor Kona, represented by the Publicity Secretary, Inuwa Bakari at a press conference in Jalingo, said Governor Ishaku has not committed any impeachable offence. A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Nigerian Ambassador to Trinidad and Tobago, Hassan Ardo had on Wednesday called for the impeachment of Governor Ishaku for alleged gross violation of the constitution. Ardo had accused Ishaku of awarding frivolous contracts that have not been executed, yet monies siphoned. He also accused Ishaku of keeping local government chairmen illegally. The APC Chieftain was quoted as saying: “Today, southern Taraba has been engulfed in crisis since April and the governor has failed in bringing it under control. In fact, it is not out of place to argue that he is behind the crisis considering the scathing remarks he has been making concerning the issue. “This man is not capable of governing a state like Taraba. He is grossly incompetent and violates the constitution without remorse. I call on the state House of Assembly to wake up to its responsibility and commence the process of impeaching him before he sinks the state completely.” But at a press conference, the PDP described the allegations as spurious, saying the governor will not be intimidated by such baseless allegations, but will remain focus in the task of governing the state. “We urge the public to disregard the false information which Ardo and his agents recently dished out. The administration of Governor Ishaku has done so much in the areas of health, roads construction, water, empowerment and electricity and will do even more in this second term. “Governor Ishaku is working very hard to achieve lasting peace in the southern part of the state and will not be distracted. “The duty and responsibility of this administration is to rescue the state from poverty and infrastructural decay which is already on course. We call on Tarabans to support government efforts to take development to the nooks and crannies of the State,” he said.  Nathaniel Gbaoron, Jalingo