Tecno mobile, the popular smartphone company has recently released another trendsetting device into the Nigerian market – the new mobile phone, which is the 6th generation of brand’s camera-centric Camon Series comes with a long list of added values and updates from its predecessors. The Camon 12 series comes in three size and colour variants – the Camon 12, Camon 12 Pro and Camon 12 Air. The device, can be gotten in an Aqua Blue colour variant, a Boudreaux Red colour variant and a Midnight Black colour variant. All variants of the device come in a nebula gradient inspired look – a design patterned after the starlight that reflects beautifully in light conditions making the device very attractive. Also, putting into consideration its 6.52 HD AMOLED DOT Notch display and 7.88 thickness, it is safe to conclude that the device is very light and fits perfectly into the grip of a user. The Camon 12 comes with a 16 MP front Camera flanked by a pair of dual flashlights to enable users take crystal clear selfies under lowlight situations – this a visible upgrade from its predecessor which spots a single flash light. Also, the focus on camera quality took a new dimension with the Camon 12. TECNO has introduced a Triple AI Max Camera of 16+8+2 MP which gives users the opportunity to take up to 120° super wide-angle shots – thus, with this device, capturing images of amazing landscape, cityscapes and indoor architecture has become stress-free. The 2 CM Macro photography feature included on this device makes it possible to take close-up shots without losing the smallest details on the object a user intends to capture – to mention also, is the bokeh effect that helps users tackle background issues by placing a clearer focus to the object to be snapped as against the background. In terms of battery, the Camon 12 packs an irremovable 4000mAh battery with super-fast charge, and can stay on standby for 24 hours after a single charge. The device is powered by MediaTek’s Helio P22 chipset which makes possible Smart AI imaging, AI Camera, reliable connectivity and power efficiency — with all the power packed in the Camon 12, the device would not get hot while performing powerful functions due to this ‘new premium chipset which sells at a good price point.’ Worthy to mention is the rear-mounted fingerprint scanner, Face ID unlock, Pin and Pattern featured added to the device to help users maximize privacy on their smartphone. The Camon 12 sells for N47,500 at authorized TECNO dealer stores across the country. Tecno has also announced that when you purchase the Camon 12, you’ll also be given a raffle ticket that entitles you for a raffle draw to win a trip to Europe. Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson