Nigeria’s cassava is the costliest to produce in the world, a statement also alluded to by the Nigeria Cassava Growers Association (NCGA) in its plans to maximise the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme to reduce the country’s import of cassava derivatives by as much as N1.2 trillion. “Nigerian cassava is the costliest in the world. For example, while Cassava chips is sold for between $200 to $250/ton in China, it costs $400 to produce a ton (of cassava chips) in Nigeria,” reads part of a document sent to Agribusiness Insight by Segun Adewumi, NCGA’s National President. The Nigerian cassava growers have an ambitious plan to radically increase production, and drive import substitution across a wide range of products. The document highlighted some prominent Cassava derivatives like Ethanol, Industrial Starch, Cassava Flour, Sweetener/Glucose Syrup, which are raw materials to numerous utility items with domestic and export market potentials. “Doubtlessly, Cassava can trigger massive Industrial Revolution in Nigeria,” it reads. Facts and Figures, according to NCGA N200,000  per ton           – N340 billion Companies, Glucose Syrup etc have estimated value of   – N350 billion 1,266,521,642 litres at N145 per litre                        – N183 billion TOTAL                                                                        = N1.2 trillion Export Market Potentials This, according to NCGA, implies Nigeria can reduce her import bill on the listed utility items by 1.2 trillion Naira. At the same time, the country can earn several trillions of Naira in foreign exchange from cassava products. Major Challenges NCGA notes that although Nigeria is the largest producer of cassava, Nigerian cassava is the costliest in the world. For example Cassava chips is sold for between $200 to $250/ton in China, it costs $400 to produce a ton in Nigeria. For the above reasons cassava derivatives from Nigeria cannot compete in the international market. The reason is the high cost of producing cassava. On the average a ton of cassava cost as much as N20,000 to produce, Cassava for Industrial use must cost bellow N10,000 per ton. Adewumi however thinks this can be achieved if certain strategies are adopted: (i)              Cassava for food security (ii)           Cassava for Industrial use. The smallholder farmers’ cassava for food security The cassava of the smallholder Farmers, which according to NCGA must not be “underpriced” because of non-availability of the necessary incentives for Commercial Production, can be harnessed and devoted to food security. Apart from ‘untractorable’ land and lack of mechanization facilities the smallholder cassava has two other major challenges: (i)              Lack of immediate and rewarding market for their products (ii)           Cost of transportation of their cassava to the milling centres. According to NCGA, these two challenges can be met with the following actions: Programme for Industrial Cassava: Bush/Land Clearing in the Southern Nigeria According to NCGA, a major challenge to commercial Agriculture especially in the Southern Nigeria is the absence of large farmland that where use of tractors and/or mechanisation is possible. There is need for land development so that farmers can be clustered around the Processing factories. Suggestion for Land Clearing NCGA suggests that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) can call for Aggregators who shall be individuals or corporate bodies that owns between 1,000 to 10,000 Hectares with title documents. Facilities will be granted to Aggregators to develop the land and demarcate it into five-Hectare-blocks with access/service roads in-between the blocks. Title documents of the land will be used as collateral for the loan facility. Yearly rent will be paid on the land by the participants i.e the youth farmers. The rent will be used for the repayment of the long term facility for the land development. Operational Modalities: Conclusion NCGA is of the opinion that, if the enumerated plan is well considered, it will achieve the following: CALEB OJEWALE 