In a bid to enhance government service delivery to the masses and increase its internally generated revenue (IGR), technology companies like IHS, Airtel, Globacom, VDT, MTN, Galaxy Backbone and Broadbased Communications have indicated interest to participate at this year’s eGovernment Conference where new technology solutions that will enhance government service delivery and reduce unemployment in the country, will be discussed and showcased. The forum, which is scheduled to hold on October 24 in Lagos is being organised by DigiServe Network Services Limited in partnership with the Federal Ministry of Communications, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Nigeria Communication Commission (NCC), National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Association of Telecoms companies of Nigeria (ATCON) and Nigeria Internet Registration Association (NIRA). The one-day conference seeks to discuss how technology adoption in government can boost government IGR, enhance government service delivery and reduce unemployment in the country. With the theme: eGovernment: Powering Governance with ICT, the conference also provides an opportunity for the stakeholders to discuss the recently approved National eGovernment plan and parley on how to remove the barriers militating against the growth of the Nigerian telecoms and ICT sector. Other technology companies that also indicated their interests to participate, include MainOne, Rack Center, ICSL, Nigcomsat, Juniper, Medallion, eStream Networks, Anchor Telecoms, Pan African Tower, 21st Century Technologies, among others. Biodun Omoniyi, the managing director of VDT Communications, said in his letter of response that VDT would participate and showcase its latest technology solutions that are currently driving retail broadband services across the country, which he said would enhance government service delivery and boost IGR, while blocking financial leakages in government. According Lanre Ajayi, executive chairman of DigiServe Network Services Limited, “the Nigeria eGovernment Conference would provide a platform where government officials and experts in various specializations in ICT can interact, share perspective and develop roadmap to mainstreaming ICT in various departments of government. He assured Nigerians that the conference would not just be another talk shop, but an avenue to proffer practical solutions to real-life problems. “We are assembling top notch experts and world-class ICT service providers to come and share their expertise on how to deepen ICT in governance. The resolutions at the conference will be printed in book format and delivered to relevant government agencies and other stakeholders, with a view to ensuring implementation of the resolutions” Ajayi said. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, the governor of Lagos State, is expected to deliver the opening speech as the host governor, while Ernest Ndukwe, the chairman, board of directors, MTN Nigeria, will present the keynote address. Other keynote presenters include; Jim Ovia, chairman, board of directors, Zenith Bank, Babatunde Fowler, executive chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and Chairman Joint Tax Board (JTB), and Ali Isa Ibrahim Pantami, the minister for communications technology.