Lanre Razak has said that Babajide Sanwo-olu, governor of Lagos State, is set to win the race. Razak, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, expressed the optimism while speaking with journalists in his office yesterday. “With steady steps being taken by Sanwo-olu on critical sectors of the economy, there is the assurance that he will take the state to the next level of development,” he said. The Epe, Lagos State-born elder statesman, added that his concentration on the job has stood the governor out as a focused administrator and dogged achiever, advising however, that nothing should be done from any quarters to distract him. According to him, SanwoOlu’s case could be likened to a child that raises up his hands for people to carry him up, stressing that, “with the way the governor has started, it is crystal clear that people’s support is required to partake in this all-inclusive government for the good of all of us.” Speaking on 2023, Razak believes that a former governor of Lagos State and chieftain of the APC, Bola Tinubu is qualified for the post of the presidency. Read also: We will respect separation of powers &#8211; Sanwo-olu According to him, the former Lagos governor has been tested and found worthy of being entrusted with more services to his fatherland, reminding his role as senator, governor of the most populous state in the country as well as his roles in teaming along with other like minds to send the military away and enthrone democracy in Nigeria. “He is eminently qualified to succeed the incumbent President, Muhammadu Buhari and build on the foundation the latter is currently building. It is not gainsaying that Tinubu is an achiever and his democratic credentials, vis-a-vis his leading role in forming a coalition that shoved aside the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP’S) misrule had made crystal clear that, with him in the saddle in 2023, Nigeria would be better for it,” he said. On the third term agenda rumour for Buhari, Razak waved the rumour aside, saying, “President Muhammadu Buhari is too decent and principled to fall for such a booby trap from professional sycophants,” exuding confidence that, “he will vacate the seat in conformity with the constitutional provision.”