MainOne, West Africa’s leading connectivity and data centre solutions provider and its subsidiary company, MDXi, came out tops at the 2019 edition of Datacloud Africa Leadership Summit and Awards held on September 26, in Accra, Ghana. Read Also: MainOne Expands Data Centre Footprint in Ghana MDXi was awarded the “Excellence in Data Centre: Africa” as well as “Africa Cloud Service Provider of the Year”. The awardees were selected by an independent panel of global data centre experts recognised for being world-class data centre and connectivity providers and innovators. The highly competitive ‘Excellence in Data Centre’ award, honours companies known for excellence in providing regional colocation services in Africa, focusing on the data centres that combine best practice in data centre management and infrastructure, with efficient technologies that lend towards the optimization and security of critical resources. These awards come shortly after the company’s recent announcement of its data centre expansion in Appolonia City-Ghana in 2020, with the Abidjan Data Centre newly launched in October 2019. MDXi’s Lekki Data Centre, the largest purpose-built commercial data centre in West Africa, was recognized for its world-class data centre infrastructure designed with a strong focus on high availability, security, and open access connectivity and operational excellence. The 600-rack capacity Uptime’s Tier III Facility Certified data centre is also certified to ISO9001, ISO27001 and PCI-DSS standards, representing compliance to global standard in security management systems to meet the needs of customers worldwide. Read Also: MainOne lands submarine cable in Cote D’Ivoire The data centre currently provides services to a large customer base made up of local and global businesses where it has provided collocation, cloud services and interconnection of the West African telecoms ecosystem to advance digital transformation across West Africa. Expressing his pleasure at receiving the awards, Gbenga Adegbiji, general manager, MDXi, states, “We are immensely appreciative of the recognition by the international community for the role we play in the West African digital ecosystem and we reaffirm our unwavering commitment to continued service excellence, by providing reliable colocation and cloud solutions. The data centre business is about giving our customers peace of mind to run their businesses from wherever they may be, and we do not take the responsibility lightly.  We have just launched our Abidjan Data Centre and announced our Appolonia (Accra) Data Centre where we plan to bring our operational expertise and processes to ensure the highest quality standards are put in place for customers in those markets. We are firmly looking forward to serving more businesses as the region continues to grow its digital economy.” This was the first time Data Cloud Africa was held in the sub-region with MainOne in attendance alongside other players such as Africa Data Centre Association, European Data Centre Association, Vertiv, Schneider Electric, among others.  