Oyo State government has reiterated its resolve to use agribusiness and the potentials to empower citizens and end hunger as the world celebrated 2019 World Food Day. Ojemuyiwa Ojekunle, Oyo State Commissioner for Agriculture, asserted the annual celebration of World Food Day organised by the state government recently in Ibadan, Oyo state. Ojekunle disclosed that to ensure food security, alleviate poverty and create jobs in the state. He added that the government has put in place mechanism for capacity building, empowerment, and rehabilitation of rural roads to spur agribusinesses growth as well as create jobs. “There is no need repeating the fact that hunger is reigning especially among the common people and over time we have seen figures of people under the poverty net but the present administration came in with the resolve to alleviate poverty and hunger through the use of commercialized agriculture that will engage youths and put food on the table of the average citizen,” he said. “You must have seen the strides since the administration started, all efforts have been geared towards securing lives and property of our people, create enabling environment for small-scale businesses as well as big-time investors to thrive while our youths will be gainfully employed,” he added. “Among other areas of interest, agriculture is the most viable and we are working hard to harness the potentials for these benefits as we are all going to benefit from it, this government is not for the wealthy but for all, that is why the governor insists on people-oriented policies that will benefit not just the common man, but all strata of the society,” he assured. He stated further that the present administration planned to industrialize Oyo State into a leading commercial hub through the agricultural revolution stressing that potential and opportunities in opening up around the state to the rest of the world in terms of investment in the agricultural sector were limitless. The Commissioner appealed to farmers in the State to brace up and increase their production because financial facility that would enable farmers meet government expectations has been put in place, enjoining all farmers and stakeholders to reciprocate the commitment of the present administration by keying into the economic recovery plan of the government in order to attain a zero hunger society with boundless employment opportunities. In his goodwill message, Seyi Makinde, State Governor, who was represented by his deputy Rauf Olaniyan promised his government would train and re-train youths and also empower them to reduce unemployment in the state. He urged the farmers especially youths to be hardworking as government has so many developmental programme in the pipeline for their development.  REMI FEYISIPO, Ibadan