Coalition of Civil Society Organisations (CSOS) have urged the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to urgently intervene in the crisis in all tertiary institutions in the state, calling for a functional visitation panel which would comprise labour unionists, students’ representatives, and school management representatives. The CSOS, which comprises Sahara Education Development Initiative (SEDI), Committee for Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), United Action Development ( UAD), and Work Bond International Network (WIN), also called on the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC) to wade into the crisis so as to find lasting solutions. The group, therefore, demanded the reinstatement of five ASUU-LASU officials illegally dismissed by the Bayo Ninalowo-led governing council, and the Vice-Chancellor, Lanre Fagbohun. Other demands of the coalition include: immediate reinstatement of ASUU-LASU check-off due said to have been illegally stopped by Lanre Fagbohun since January 2019. They also demanded the immediate promotion of union officers and loyalists who were allegedly denied promotions by the university administration. The CSOS further charged the governor to investigate N198 million pension funds of LASU staff allegedly used to buy exotic cars and immediate investigation of the N1.3billion NEEDS funds also allegedly mismanaged by Obafunwa and Fagbohun. One of the leaders of the group, Kunle Wiseman Ajayi, urged the government to resolve the matter quickly. Read also: Foundation donates 40 beds to LASUTH “We will continue the protest until our demands are met. Nigerians are suffering, the country is rich yet our people are suffering. They are wasting our resources, they are even using our resources to fight us,” he said. He added that there were several issues in all the tertiary institutions in Lagos State, stressing that all the ivory towers in the state were in a big mess. “When workers of LASPOTECH fought over the salary scale that have been accepted nationwide and have not been implemented in the school, 38 workers of the institution were arrested and detained in Kirikiri Maximum Prison. “Just a week after, one of them died after they were released. Also, five of the non-academic staff of LASPOTECH were victimised and unjustly punished. He added that five lecturers were unjustly sacked in LASU while demanding for their immediate reinstatement. His view was, however, corroborated by Omotaje Olawale, who said they had held several meetings with the state government on some of the issues.