Lasmara, an independent art consultancy, specialising in contemporary African art, has unveiled the maiden edition of Impart Artists Fair, a new initiative and veritable platform to promote African artists within and outside the continent. The three-day event holds from October 25-27, 2019, at Eko Atlantic, Victoria Island, Lagos. Themed ‘Art Meets Tech’, the fair, according to the organisers, will feature 300 African artists, who will be exhibiting over 1000 recent artworks to visitors including; over 6000 international and local art collectors, established members of the art community, students and art enthusiasts from different socio-economic backgrounds. The artists were selected through a thorough vetting process supervised by the selection committee made up of 11 international art professionals and collectors. Exciting activities line-up during the fair include; a Digital Art showcase (using groundbreaking Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality Technologies), workshops with artists and professionals, exclusive collectors’ events, among others. Speaking on the rationale for launching the platform, Hana Omilani, founder and director, Lasmara, the fair organisers of the fair, explained that Impart Artists Fair is organised to increase awareness of African arts and culture sector, as well as, to improve African art recognition on a global pedestal. Speaking further, she noted that with the support of Templars (a law firm) and the Consulate of the United States in Lagos, the fair is offering artists a platform to exhibit themselves via the use of Interactive and Immersive Technology. “This is where technology plays a vital factor and we believe that through technology we can reach a larger audience needed to create volume in the transaction of African art,” Hana said. As well, the fair, according to her, is a way to officially launch Impart the platform. “Impart is a new initiative – a platform to promote African artists. But the Impart Artists Fair is just one of the series of initiatives. The fair uses technology to promote art, this is why the maiden edition of is themed Art Meets Tech. “We have ongoing plans to empower artists through this platform, as we are actively involved in social, non-profit activities, such as community building, portfolio management, talks, artists’ workshops, residency programmes and special workshops for women, to help increase the representation of female artists in the field”, she said. However, she called on the art public to be at the fair. “You cannot afford to miss this experience.  So, tell a friend to tell another friend. Come along one and all and enjoy the best that African art has to offer. Interact with your favourite artists, purchase their artworks, meet new people and make new connections while taking pictures and enjoying lovely music. It will be a very exciting and stimulating experience.” Lasmara is an independent art consultancy, specialising in contemporary African art. It offers a wide range of specialist art services, from commissioning artists and sourcing works to creating strategies for investment and exhibition. Lasmara sees every client, like every piece of art, as unique.  So, it collaborates very closely with clients to understand their individual aesthetic and requirements, and to provide personally tailored solutions. The art consultancy boasts the experience and insight to take a practical and artistic approach to every project, in order to provide a seamless bespoke service that delights its clients. “Our database of artists is constantly expanding, both well-established and up-and-coming, but always exciting and original. Our speciality is African but our interests are global, and we work with clients, galleries and art houses all over the world. “In addition to sourcing and acquiring artworks, we can also assist with the liquidation of art collections, resale of artworks, art handling, administration of loans and consignments, shipping and storage, and much more. We look forward to working with an expanding array of Nigerian and international clients, to meet their requirements while increasing awareness of African art and African artists across the globe”, she concluded. 