Once again, the Lagos hotel market has welcomed a new entrant in the burgeoning business. Aptly called ‘ Dover Hotel Exclusive’, the new hotel, which is from the stables of The Dover Hotel, is an exclusive offering that complements the existing hotel of the indigenous hotel company in Lekki Phase 1, Lagos. Set in Aromire Street, Off Allen Avenue in Ikeja, Lagos, Dover Hotel Exclusive, which opened its doors to the public last weekend, is built with discerning guests in mind, especially lovers of quality, lifestyle and exclusivity. On offer are 104 tastefully furnished rooms, world-class bars, lounges, restaurants, fitness and business centres among other facilities. The new room offering is a boost to about 88 rooms in Dover Hotel Ikeja, which shares boundary with the new hotel, as well as, the 88-room Dover Hotel Lekki Phase 1. However, the opening of the new hotel marks 15 years anniversary of The Dover Hotel group in the hotel business and also expression of its commitment to expansion of the Dover with three hotels now. But the intrigue of the hotel is that the management recorded a feat in delivering in the hotel within a year from the day of its groundbreaking ceremony. Speaking of the prompt delivery, Jackson Agbai Abbah, chairman, Dover Hotels, noted that construction work started on the site on August 2, 2018. “Before then, a commitment was made to our bankers that we will open to the public 12 months from the groundbreaking. We started work accordingly and on August 3, 2019, the first event held in the hotel:, he said. The excited chairman noted that the impetus of Dover Hotel’s believe came from the knowledge that some international hotel brands have policy of completing hotel projects within one year, and if given the right environment and funding, a Nigerian company can deliver within same period or even shorter time. Read also: Hilton reaches 100-hotel milestone in Africa He commended Bank of Industry and Wema Bank for their believe in Dover Hotel’s idea and funding, which aided the timely actualization of the hotel. “Bank of Industry provided the funding gap that was necessary to catalyse the dream. They funded us at single-digit interest rate, while Wema Bank, our commercial bankers, provided the guarantees necessary to activate this project”, he explained. While assuring that the hotel will use the next six year to repay the loans, the chairman decried the rising cost of doing business in Nigeria occasioned by lack of enabling infrastructure, which businesses are now providing at extra cost. He complained of high taxes saying that while it is important that government increase its revenue base, there is need to balance the needs of certain industries, especially hospitality, which is capital intensive and very sensitive. He also assured of Diver Hotel’s commitment to exceptional service to its customers and hence declared the hotel open for discerning guests. Some of the highlights at the opening ceremony include War Dance, a thrilling cultural dance performed by Abriba Dance Troupe from Abia State. Top dignitaries at the occasion include Eze Kalu Kalu Ogbu, the Enachioken of Abiriba, who played role of father of the day, U. K. Eke (MFR), who was the chairman of the day, members of the Old Boys Association of the Anglican Grammar School, ‘’1978 session’’ Abiriba (the alma Mata of founder of Dover Hotel Exclusive and Gloria Emodi, managing director, Dover Hotel Exclusive. Others were Anglican clergies, Arch Bishop Isaac Nwobia of the Dioceses of Abiriba, Abia State among others.