Although they play an essential role in moving millions of Lagosians from one part of the city to another, they have also left many passengers with lots of tales of woes. From constantly ‘high’ and drunk drivers and conductors to rickety and dirty looking buses that tear at passengers’ clothes, as well as fierce-looking touts harassing passers-by in the name of scouting. Passengers have also reported cases of armed robbery, kidnapping and physical assaults by drivers using Danfo buses. Also, hundreds of them break down consistently on Lagos roads, leaving passengers stranded and vulnerable. The Lagos State government under Governor Akinwunmi Ambode had vowed to take a precisive step in reforming the Danfo bus system in 2018, following increasing complaints from passengers on their ugly experiences. The Bus Reform Initiative by the government included a three-year plan aimed at introducing over 5000 air-conditioned buses to replace the yellow commercial buses. The plan was suspended after the governor failed to secure the second term in office. The current government under Babajide Sanwo-Olu have yet to release their transport roadmap for the state. In the meantime, Plentywaka a subsidiary of Farmcrowdy, Mizibus OBus are filling the big shoes, amid little resources. Aside from the comfort riding in air-conditioned buses provide, there is also the convenience passengers derive from booking rides from their mobile applications. Passengers also get to plan their income around transportation in a month. OBus OBus was the first startup to launch following the success of its sister unit ORide in motorcycle-ride-hailing business in the state. Like ORide, OBus which is still in beta operates within the larger OPay super app and its services and mainly focused on the Mainland part of Lagos. Read also: OPay expands to bus-hailing, launches “OBus&#8221; OBus provides services for passengers along Yaba; Oshodi Terminal; Shawarma Yaba; Maba; Yaba College; Christ Embassy Church, Yaba; Yaba Baptist Children’s School; etc. Mizibus Launched in October, Mizibus carries people to any bus stop within the Oworonshoki-Ikate axis. To get a ride, users have to first download the app which is available on Android for now. Within the app, they will need to select their destination and load their wallets.  God is Good Motors (GIGM) and Uber is said to be looking at the space as they expand their transport businesses in Nigeria. It is still early days for bus-hailing startups. First, the number of buses they each own cannot make a dent on Danfo business. Second, all three of the startups are yet to get their user experiences right as many customers are already complaining of multiple deductions, bus inaccessibility even when a booking is confirmed on the app and being left stranded for hours at pickup points. The market could get better with more investment and competition. If the startups give more attention to customer experiences, there is likely to be an improvement that would, in turn, lure more people to adopt the new way of commuting within Lagos.