The American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) has introduced a new travel management technology which gives its clients access to wider range of products to improve efficiency and customer experience. The technology which is a full in-to-in travel management solution covers every aspect of the travel transaction and it allows for access to content that can be found to improve travel experience. Speaking during the 4th Edition of its Executive Client Forum themed ‘Technology and the future in business travel,’ Claude Vankeirsbilck, COO, Tourvest Travel Services said American Express Global Business Travel has technically launched the technology in the market place and will be delivering it to customers in the next couple of weeks. “Today we are giving our customers an insight of what we are going to be offering to our client base in Nigeria. The technology is one that accesses content that is available and it brings it all to one screen. “So, a traveller for example can make his own booking and have access to everything that he is allowed to see by his company. A travel policy will dictate what he is allowed to see and it makes sure that the company is in full control of his travel expenses and allows for travellers to book their own travels if the company wants the travellers to book themselves,” Vankeirsbilck explained. He said the technology is developed and requires support from travel counsellors. “Our travel counsellors also use their technology. A company might not want to enable its own travellers to make the booking but the technology enables our travel counsellors to be far more efficient in delivering a far higher quality service to our customers. To the country, it enhances the experience that we offer to our customers,” he added. John Adebanjo, chairman of American Express Global Business Travel, Nigeria told Businessday that its new technology will make travel seamless for its clients and this is the primary focus. “Once we get this done, it is human beings that will programme and operate the technology. It is very important for our clients to be able to save money and do what they need to do cost effectively. We are also strengthening the travel associations. If they are there, they will operate the technology. This is what we are celebrating this year,” Adebanjo said. Read also; Tecno mobile rewards promo winners with trip to Europe He stressed that in the last couple of months, the business of American Express Global Business Travel has grown exponentially and it was the right time to honour and appreciate all its clients and that is exactly what the company is doing through its yearly Executive Client Forum. He recalled that during the 2015/2016 saga when Nigeria had issues with foreign exchange, that affected many companies, especially the travel industry, he said American Express Global Business Travel was able to sustain its operations. “Clients and the corporates need to save money and we have positioned ourselves to do that for them because of our global reach. American Express has a global reach and the services we are offering are unique. So, we started capturing the market, and the growth was experienced from that time,” Adebanjo said. Olufunke Adebolu, commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Lagos State who was also present at the occasion said business tourism and travel is the new oil well for the sector. According to commissioner, in 2017, one billion people travelled across the world and 1.2trillion dollars was spent in the process as business travel grew across the whole world by three percent, adding that eight percent international travellers across the world are in the business space, showing where the traction is. “We know the importance of tourism and entertainments in Nigeria. Eighty percent of people who travel in Nigeria arrive in Lagos State and a lot of these are business people. “This makes me want to know what these business people do, where they visit when they arrive, how I can make their stay enjoyable. This way, I can encourage repeated visits. As government, we want to provide the kind of things the business travellers want. “Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, the governor of Lagos State is passionate about this sector. Lagos has the most beautiful beaches and clubs. We want to encourage business travellers to arrive and enjoy their experience. We are working to remove barriers to entry such as long visa processes. We are working with the federal government to see what we can do in this space,” Adebolu said. Bankole Bernard, President of the National Association of Nigeria Travel Agencies (NANTA), commended the American Express Global Business Travel for ensuring its entire staff get the NANTA I.D card which was introduced to regulate the industry and embrace professionalism.