This weekend, Okadabooks takes you on a ride in stories to keep you company. 21st Century Parenting by Thorpe Bello Raising a child clearly goes beyond performing a set of rituals. It is a process of interdependent relationships that seek to influence a child’s mindset and behaviour, instill moral values, build self-confidence and develop competence in the child. Parent education and training are significant steps towards dealing effectively with the ever-increasing pressures that are part of the parenting journey. The society environment, marriage, divorce, gender issues, economic status, religion, education and a host of other variables continue to affect families and parenting in the 21st Century. On one hand, bad parenting gets the blame for the majority of the problems society today. On another, society’s support to parents with raising children continues to reduce. There is a need to establish standards for parenting. Individuals who are unable to handle the responsibilities of their own lives end up becoming incompetent parents. This book will enable you to strengthen your value system as a parent, and acquire the parenting skills relevant in today’s society, to groom your child for greatness. Read Now Why You Mother by Ufuoma Fijabi When a mother sets out on a journey in search of her missing kids with no particular destination in mind, it can only be a heart-breaking experience. She is broken, clueless and lost. This is what motherhood can look like when you do not understand ‘why you are a mother’. This book will help you redefine motherhood, and find out what happens when you embrace your role as a builder of lives and destinies. Read Now Working For The Enemy by Nolly Books Writing has always been Thandeka Shabangu’s passion. Years of playing the obedient daughter had seen her pursue a lacklustre career in Engineering – her father’s choice; but she is determined to live her dream and decides to shut the door on engineering. Not an easy decision for a girl whose late father had sweat, blood and tears to get her through university! After months of fruitless searching for a writing job, Thandeka is forced to take a job on a magazine owned by a man she loathes: Thulani Zikwe. A man she has vowed never to speak to again. Thandeka and Thulani share a past for which she can’t forgive him. Is she strong enough to follow her true passion or will she allow an old wound to destroy her future? Read Now Where’D You Go? by Kehinde Ademoye This collection of short stories explores terrorism in Northern Nigeria. From Captain Shola and his men who are ambushed by killer herdsmen while on patrol, and need to hold their ground; to a retired Special Forces officer who leads his men to protect his village and its environs from killer herdsmen; to Lieutenant Colonel Abel whose team had to extend their tour by two days to escort the Senate President’s daughter to an IDP Camp and then wait out an assault by Boko Haram insurgents; to Kunle Pierce who is a CIA operative, but comes to avenge the murder of his brother-in-law by the Boko Haram sect; to the Corps members caught in a post-election violence and fight back; and then there is Halima, an abducted girl from Chibok who suffers from Stockholm syndrome, and tries to settle down to normalcy after her release with some other girls. The stories are action-packed; depicting loss, justice, vengeance, bravery, courage under fire, sacrifice and patriotism. Read Now 