Two of Nigeria’s biggest brands, Nigerian Breweries (NB) and Access Bank have unveiled a recent collaboration for mega opportunity to discover new music talents across Nigeria. The two brands are committing over N150 million in a new talent hunt tagged ‘Access The Stars’ that will give exceptional Nigerians the chance to be refined, and empowered to reach superstar status in the music industry. ‘Access The Stars’ is expected to connect both brands to its consumers leveraging music as a common platform. Access Bank and Star Lager Beer share a long history of creating music experiences for not just their consumers, but for the wider Nigerian audience, and in addition to the fame of winning the reality music show, the sponsors will give monetary rewards totaling N150 million, to the winners of the hunt expected to start in October. Herbert Wigwe, the MD/CEO of Access Bank said the initiative behind ‘Access The Stars’ was borne out of the desire of both brands to continue to connect with people through the one platform they both have in common which is music. “Both our brands share a long history of creating excellent musical experiences for not just our own customers, but the wider Nigerian audience, and this is us expanding on that,” he said. Jordi Borrut Bel, the managing director/CEO of Nigerian Breweries, said the initiative between both brands will deepen industry collaboration. “We have done this before, but this time, we want to bring something new and more entertaining to our consumers, where they not only enjoy good music, but get the opportunity to have their own voices and music showcased to the rest of the world. We are really excited about this,” Jordi stated. Star Lager Beer is a well-known name in the Nigerian music scene, with hit concerts like Star Music: The Trek, Star Mega Jam, and famous talent show, Star Quest which was a launch pad for the likes of Kcee, DJ Switch and many more. With their concerts, the brand took stars around the country and gave them the platform to entertain fans in different cities. Access Bank on the other hand recently made its foray fully into music with the Born in Africa Festival (BAFEST). The much talked about concert had a long list of top-rated stars in Nigeria’s music scene performing at a brilliantly produced event by Livespot360. Before this time, the bank has been a major sponsor of other concerts around the country and is now putting its full weight behind what would most likely be the biggest event in 2019. Alongside the hunt for new talents, ‘Access The Stars’ will also reward fans with music performances from A-list artistes in each city the discovery train hits. Much like the now-defunct Star Music – The Trek, acts such as Tiwa Savage, Burna Boy, Flavour, Phyno, Olamide, Kcee, and more will perform in different cities as Access Bank and Star Lager Beer tour Nigeria in search of new talents. Hosting ‘Access The Stars’ will be music superstar Dare Art Alade, with television host and radio personality, Olive Emodi as co-host. Choreographer and CEO Imagneto Dance Company, Kaffy, Nigerian Music Producer, Tee-Y Mix and Nigerian Music Star, Seyi Shay will serve as judges.  SEYI JOHN SALAU & ESEROGHENE AYOMAH 