Rémy Martin XO, a global name in the cognac industry and a product of Rémy Martin, a member of the Comite Colbert, a French Association of Luxury Businesses, curated an Opulence Revealed experience for the elite members of Marriott Bonvoy in Lagos recently. The event described as the first of its kind in Nigeria sees selected Marriott Bonvoy Elite, the top echelon of Marriott International loyalty cardholders, gather at the Presidential Suite of Sheraton Lagos to have a taste of the exceptional cognac. Read also: Remy Martin mixed reality experience with Microsoft Hololens Leading the Rémy Martin XO Opulence Revealed experience, Stephen Jimba, Nigeria Ambassador of Rémy Martin XO, described the experience as allowing guests to discover a deeper understanding and appreciation of the finer quality of Rémy Martin XO cognac through an exploration of textures, flavours and aromas. According to Jimba, “This Opulence Revealed tasting experience is especially curated for the Marriott Bonvoy Elite members to savour and appreciate the variety of flavours contained in the richness of aromas in a glass of Rémy Martin XO.” The Rémy Martin XO tasting brings to life the intrinsic story of Rémy Martin and XO in an immersive experience through an opulent spread of flavours and delicacies as guests were treated to a magnificent table revealing the many layers of the XO flavour profile, which includes decadent chocolate truffles, Parmesan cheese, dried apricots and figs, pistachio cake, walnuts, spices and fruits, as well as, an array of Jasmine, Iris and Rose flowers. Xavier Carbonel, country manager Nigeria, Rémy Cointreau, said the Rémy Martin XO brand represents the long-term legacy and sophistication of fine premium French distillery. “We are proud to be associated with Marriott Bonvoy Elite. The Rémy Martin distillery is exquisite and superior giving you same taste irrespective of the time in history. This uniqueness of the brand gives us a competitive advantage,” Carbonel asserted. Barry Curran, area general manager Nigeria, Marriott International and general manager, Sheraton Lagos, expressed delight in partnering with Rémy Martin XO to give their premium cardholders, Marriott Bonvoy Elite, a unique Opulence Revealed tasting experience. Marriott International has been focused on creating exclusive moments that help connect with members through their passion. As well, loyalty program members redeemed their points for a highly elevated and intimate experience in partnership with Rémy Martin XO. “The Sheraton is where the Bonvoy Elite world comes together and we are delighted to have brought this night of Rémy Martin XO Opulence Revealed tasting experience to our Marriott Bonvoy members”, Curran stated.