I cannot remember missing any of Omoni Oboli’s premieres and honestly, I was looking forward to the premiere of LOVE IS WAR and trust me, it was worth the wait. By now I know a lot of you have watched it and without trying to say too much, I am sure you have been convinced without any doubt that anything Omoni sets her hands upon is a success story, LOVE IS WAR is one of such. Love is war is an intense drama about a husband and wife battling for the governorship of Ondo State. It is a comedy-drama film directed by Omoni Oboli and written by Chinaza Onuzo. It stars Oboli, Richard MofeDamijo, Jide Kosoko, Akin Lewis, Bimbo Manuel, Toke Makinwa, Shaffy Bello, Femi Branch, Uzo Osimkpa, Yemi Blaq, Damilare Kuku and William Benson. Produced by Inkblot Productions and Dioni Visions, Love is War is the second collaboration between the two production companies following 2018’s Moms at War. Read Also: Omoni Oboli highlights love, ambition, power in latest movie &#8216;Love is War&#8217; From the beginning of the movie, it was easy to feel the pulse of the lead actress (Mrs Phillips) and scene after scene, we were taken into the reality of the pressures of politics, most especially being a female and particularly, facing your husband to contest for a position. Who does that? Well, to answer your question, Mrs Phillips did. Every scene was believable. The lead male actor, Richard Mofe Damijo certainly played his role excellently well as husband and politician. It truly shows what happens in the political terrain, especially in Nigeria. Thanks to all the actors and actresses who delivered their roles accurately. “I always like to outdo myself because I am my only competition and no one else. I am encouraged by the reviews from those who have watched it so far and I know it can only get better.” Omoni said. Telling you more about the movie would be spilling the beans. I want you to go watch it yourself and let the movie do the talking. Do you know that love can be war? Well, whether you agree or not, I believe your decision will come after watching the movie. Go and have an amazing time at the cinemas and celebrate Nollywood because as Omoni says, “it can only get better.”