Anita De Werd, head of Maersk Marketing and Business Development within the Africa region, has said that the company acknowledges the importance of diversity and inclusion for the development of the global maritime sector. De Werd, who delivered a goodwill message at the 2019 World Maritime Day Celebration hosted by the Federal Ministry of Transportation in Lagos recently, said to fulfil its role in society as enablers of global trade, the shipping firm needs to advocate for women to have a seat at the table in the organisation and to ensure women entrepreneurs have access to global trade. She said Maersk has developed a partnership agreement with She-Trades, an initiative from the International Trade Centre, to connect three million women entrepreneurs to the global markets by 2021. De Werd commended Nigerian women operating in the maritime industry for being the standard bearers for the African continent. Citing example, she said: “About 400 years ago, Queen Amina led her community because she deserved to do so based on her capability and ambition. Her gender was not a disqualifier. She was a fierce warrior, who personally led military expeditions of over 20,000 infantrymen to innumerable battles. She was innovative and brought great wealth and power to her kingdom.” According De Werd, Amina typifies the Nigerian woman of today, who is hard working, open-minded and a fast learner. “A woman that is capable of leading and bringing prosperity to everything she does. On this day of celebrating the 2019 World Maritime Day, Maersk celebrates especially the Nigerian women, who hold top positions and inspire those around them.” She said being a diverse and inclusive organisation makes Maersk stronger and more resilient. She added that it helps them to understand the present, better anticipate the challenges as well as opportunities that may arise in the future. De Werd further said that Maersk was keen on bringing African women on board its leadership teams through its Africa Leadership Development programme, where 65 percent of participants are now heading up managerial roles in African countries. “Organisations that reflect the societies they serve are stronger and more successful. When we work, think, and act to leverage the participation of women in the workplace, we are seizing one of the greatest opportunities of our age – equality for all,” De Werd added.  AMAKA ANAGOR-EWUZIE 