Nigeria had a plan to achieve 30 percent broadband penetration in 2018, today it stands at 33 percent, but for the country to do even better, deployment of technologies and infrastructure have to be complemented with growth in power supply. As experts suggested at a Power and Telecommunications Synergy Conference, sponsored by IHS Nigeria and organised by Thistle Praxis this on Tuesday, equipment to deepen telecommunications services are intrinsically tied to being able to power them; particularly in a cheap, efficient manner that does not require constant fuelling through expensive alternative sources. Deliberations at the conference focused on the potentials for expanding telecommunications coverage, and how synergy between both the public and private sectors is required to achieve those potentials. Mohamad Darwish, IHS Towers senior vice president, Co-founder and IHS Nigeria CEO, said at the event, that the conference was designed to provide insightful and constructive solutions to help achieve the nation’s vision for broadband growth and inclusive prosperity. “The telecommunications sector is of ultimate importance to the economic growth of Nigeria. We are excited to be part of those broader solutions emerging from the power and telecommunications sector to address the country’s major challenges and those of West Africa at large,” he said. Darwish stressed the need for both private and public sectors to collaborate on driving innovative solutions that will enable Nigeria to meet its growing demand for broadband connectivity. “As of March 2019, according to the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), broadband penetration in Nigeria was pegged at 33 percent and an increase to the 70 percent target will require everyone’s efforts. This endeavour is too complex to be addressed solely by governments, operators or society. This needs to be a shared goal. We must all work together to achieve connectivity nationwide,” Darwish said. James Momoh, chairman, Nigerian Electricity Regulation Commission described the power and telecommunications sectors as key economic pillars in Nigeria. According to him, paying attention to the growth and development of both sectors will further aid the diversification of the country’s economy. “This conference was enlightening in terms of the various ways in which we can expand within and outside of our industry. It addressed key concerns that will ultimately lead to a better understanding of both industries. It provided insights through engaging sessions with experts, which I believe will have significant impact in the near future,” he said. The Conference hosted experts within the power and telecommunications industries in an effort to lead discourse on the continued development of Nigeria’s telecommunications industry.  CALEB OJEWALE