Union Systems Limited (USL), a leading African financial technology company and Daon, a global leader in biometric identity technology, today announced its partnership to deliver innovative, cross-channel authentication and next-generation digital onboarding to financial
institutions and other industry verticals in Africa. With IdentityX®, Daon’s “two-in-one” cross-channel platform for digital onboarding and authentication, new customers can register their identities in minutes, then immediately begin using that same credential for ongoing authentication. IdentityX removes friction from the authentication and onboarding processes while providing the highest level of security through its multi-layered approach. IdentityX is also certified by the FIDO (Fast Identity Online) Alliance for both FIDO 1.1 (UAF) and FIDO2 protocols. “Working collaboratively with Union Systems Limited, we will make our leading identity technology available to an ever-growing wave of African innovators, particularly those in financial services who want to reach more customers and differentiate themselves with a secure and seamless experience,” said Tom Grissen, CEO, Daon. “We are excited to bring our authentication and digital onboarding capabilities to Union Systems customers and expand our product offering throughout the African market.” Union Systems brings to the partnership over 20 years’ experience implementing and supporting various global financial software applications around Africa. The company understands the technicalities of successful implementation of global software solutions in Africa taking into consideration the distinct requirements and customizations that come with such deployments. “This partnership with Daon puts us at the forefront of the efforts by the regulatory authorities to combat financial crimes. Daon’s technology is cutting- edge and will redefine authentication and digital onboarding as we know it,” said Chuks Onyebuchi, CEO, Union Systems. About Union Systems
Union Systems Limited (USL) is an Information Technology Company that provides financial software solutions and professional services to major banks in Africa. The Company supports customers in 19 African countries and provides software
solutions to financial institutions to enhance their software capabilities, effectively scale processes, improve compliance and drive operational efficiencies. With headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria, the company has a deep understanding of
the African market and has a team of highly qualified consultants that have real-world experience in the delivery of complex software solutions.  Top banks in
Africa rely on Union Systems to deliver growth, profitability and regulatory
compliance in financial software applications. About Daon
Daon is an innovator in developing and deploying biometric authentication and
identity assurance solutions worldwide. Daon has pioneered methods for securely
and conveniently combining biometric and identity capabilities across multiple
channels with large-scale deployments that span payments verification, digital
banking, wealth, insurance, telcos, and securing borders and seamless travel.
Daon&#39;s IdentityX® platform provides an inclusive, trusted digital security
experience, enabling the creation, authentication and recovery of a user’s identity
and allowing businesses to conduct transactions with any consumer through any
medium with total confidence.